OPINION
MR. JUSTICE MINTON delivered the opinion of the Court.
The present suit was brought by the Federal Trial Examiners Conference, 1 an unincorporated association of trial examiners, and by a number of individual trial examiners, against the members of the United States Civil Service Commission and the National Labor Relations Board.  The plaintiffs, who had been appointed pursuant to § 11 of the Administrative Procedure Act, 60 Stat. 244, 5 U. S. C. § 1010, sought a declaratory judgment that certain rules relating to their promotion, compensation, tenure, and the assignment of cases, promulgated by the Civil Service Commission pursuant to § 11, were invalid, and asked that their enforcement be enjoined.  The District Court held that these four rules were invalid, interpreting § 11 as requiring: (1) that hearing examiners employed by a particular federal administrative agency must  be placed in the same salary grade; (2) that a hearing examiner may not be promoted from one salary grade to another within the same agency; (3) that hearing examiners must be assigned to cases in mechanical rotation without regard to the difficulty or importance of particular cases or the competence or experience of particular examiners; and (4) that the employment of hearing examiners may not be terminated by reduction in force procedures where there is a lack of work or of funds with which to pay them.  The District Court granted a permanent injunction against the enforcement of these four Civil Service rules, 104 F.Supp. 734. The Court of Appeals affirmed in a short per curiam opinion, one judge dissenting.  91 U. S. App. D. C. 164, 202 F.2d 312. We granted certiorari, 344 U.S. 853.
Prior to the passage of the Administrative Procedure Act, hearing examiners' tenure  and status were governed by the Classification Act of 1923, as amended. Under the Classification Act, as employees of an agency, their classification was determined by the ratings given them by the agency, and their compensation and promotion depended upon their classification. The examiners were in a dependent status.
With the rapid growth of administrative law in the last few decades, the role of these quasi-judicial officers became increasingly significant and controversial. Many of the regulatory powers which Congress has assigned federal administrative agencies can be exercised only after notice and hearing required by the Constitution or by statute.  These agencies have such a volume of business, including cases in which a hearing is required, that the agency heads, the members of boards or commissions, can rarely preside over hearings in which evidence is required.  The agencies met this problem long before the Administrative Procedure Act by designating hearing or trial examiners to preside over hearings for the reception of evidence.  Such an examiner generally made a report to the agency setting forth proposed findings of fact and recommended action.  The  parties could address to the agency exceptions to the findings, and, after receiving briefs and hearing oral argument, the agency heads would make the final decision.
Many complaints were voiced against the actions of the hearing examiners, it being charged that they were mere tools of the agency concerned and subservient to the agency heads in making their proposed findings of fact and recommendations. A study by President Roosevelt's Committee on Administrative Management resulted in a report in 1937 recommending separation of adjudicatory functions and personnel from investigative and prosecution personnel in the agencies.  The Attorney General's Committee on Administrative Procedure was appointed in 1939 to study the decisional process in administrative agencies, and the final report of this Committee was published in 1941.  Both the majority and minority members of the Committee recommended that hearing examiners be made partially independent of the agency by which they were employed; the majority recommended hearing examiners be appointed for a term of seven years, and the minority recommended a term of twelve years.  Although extensive hearings were held on bills to carry  out the recommendations of this Committee, World War II delayed final congressional action on the subject.  After the war, the McCarran-Sumners Bill, which became the Administrative Procedure Act, was introduced.  The Senate Judiciary Committee Print of June 1945 reveals that at that time there was still great diversity of opinion as to how the status of hearing examiners should be enhanced.  Several proposals were considered, and in the final bill Congress provided that hearing examiners should be given independence and tenure within the existing Civil Service system. 2
Congress intended to make hearing examiners "a special class of semi-independent subordinate hearing officers" 3 by vesting control of their compensation, promotion and tenure in the Civil Service Commission to a much greater extent than in the case of other federal employees. Section 11 is as follows:
"Subject to the civil-service and other laws to the extent not inconsistent with this Act, there shall be appointed by and for each agency as many qualified and competent examiners as may be necessary for proceedings pursuant to sections 7 and 8, who shall be assigned to cases in rotation so far as practicable and shall perform no duties inconsistent with their duties and responsibilities as examiners. Examiners shall be removable by the agency in which they are employed only for good cause established and determined by the Civil Service Commission (hereinafter called the Commission) after opportunity for hearing and upon the record thereof.  Examiners shall receive compensation prescribed by the Commission independently of agency recommendations or ratings and in accordance with the Classification Act of 1923, as amended, except that the provisions of paragraphs (2)  and (3) of subsection (b) of section 7 of said Act, as amended, and the provisions of section 9 of said Act, as amended, shall not be applicable.  Agencies occasionally or temporarily insufficiently staffed may utilize examiners selected by the Commission from and with the consent of other agencies.  For the purposes of this section, the Commission is authorized to make investigations, require reports by agencies, issue reports, including an annual report to the Congress, promulgate rules, appoint such advisory committees as may be deemed necessary, recommend legislation, subpena witnesses or records, and pay witness fees as established for the United States courts."
An examination of § 11 shows that Congress retained the examiners as classified Civil Service employees but made inapplicable to them paragraphs (2) and (3) of subsection (b) of § 7 of the Classification Act and § 9 of that Act. These sections had made the examiners dependent upon the agencies' ratings for their classification.  Freed from this dependence upon the agencies, the examiners were specifically declared to be otherwise under the other provisions of the Classification Act of 1923 as amended (now the Classification Act of 1949, 5 U. S. C. (Supp. V) § 1071 et seq.).
The position of hearing examiners is not a constitutionally protected position.  It is a creature of congressional enactment.  The respondents have no vested right to positions as examiners. They hold their posts by such tenure as Congress sees fit to give them.  Their positions may be regulated completely by Congress, or Congress may delegate the exercise of its regulatory power, under proper standards, to the Civil Service Commission, which it has done in this case.
The question we have presented is whether the Civil Service Commission in the adoption of these rules followed or departed from the directions given it by § 11 of the Administrative Procedure Act. Did it implement the statute, or did it enlarge it?
Respondents do not contend that all hearing examiners should be classified in the same grade; they contend only that all hearing examiners in any one agency should be classified in the same grade.  Petitioners argue that cases in a given agency are of varying levels of difficulty and importance and that the examiners hearing them must possess varying degrees of competency and types of qualifications. Petitioners point to the experience of the Civil Aeronautics Board where there are safety cases heard by one group of examiners and economic cases heard by another.  The examiners assigned to the safety cases have pilots' certificates, while those assigned to the economic cases have completely different types of qualifications. Again, certain cases before the Interstate Commerce Commission involve relatively simple applications for extensions of motor carrier certificates, while others involve complicated and difficult railroad rate proceedings.  Petitioners' argument indicates the need for specialization among examiners in the same agency to meet the diverse types of cases presented.
Proceeding under the provisions of the Classification Act, the Commission still classified the examiners according to their experience, skill, and ability, 4 but without seeking or receiving rating of the examiners by the   agencies and wholly independent thereof.  A classification of  the examiners into grades, with salaries appropriate to each grade, was set up by the Commission in each federal agency using examiners. This classification ranged from just one grade in several agencies to five grades in two agencies. Allocation of examiners in accordance with these classifications is provided for in Rule 34.10 5 which specifically states, "Allocations shall be made independently of agency recommendations and ratings." (Emphasis supplied.)
When the Commission classified the examiners according to the Classification Act, it was doing just what Congress directed it to do.  As has been previously shown,   § 11 specifically directs that "Examiners shall receive compensation . . . in accordance with the Classification Act of 1923, as amended," with the exception provided in the statute and in the rules that this is to be done independently of agency influence.  This contradicts the contention that Congress did not intend to permit classification of examiner positions by the Commission.  The Act clearly provides, as Congress thought it did, 6 for the allocation of positions within an agency to be made in various salary grades, which reflect the competence and experience of the person in the grade. Congress must have recognized the right of the Commission so to classify when it amended the Classification Act in 1949.  At that time it specifically excluded thirty-two categories of government employees, but not examiners, 5 U. S. C. (Supp. V) § 1082, although the Commission then was classifying examiners under regulations similar to the present ones.
The District Court was critical of the specifications used by the Commission to classify the examiners as being "nebulous and subjective."  To classify the positions into the different grades from GS 11 to GS 15, the Commission used specifications as to job content as "moderately difficult and important," "difficult and important," "unusually difficult and important," "exceedingly difficult and important," and "exceptionally difficult and important." These specifications of necessity must be subjective.  They are not based so much on evidence as on judgment.  It is a discriminating judgment and one Congress committed to the experience and expertise of the Civil Service Commission, not the courts.  The specifications evidently had practical content and meaning to Congress, as it repeatedly used similar phrases to describe relative methods in § 602 of the Classification Act of 1949, 5 U. S. C. (Supp. V) § 1112.
We come next to Rule 34.4 of the Commission relating to promotions, 7 which is set forth in the margin.  This rule was   held invalid by the District Court, consistent with its view that there can be no classification of examiners and therefore there can be  only one grade. Since we disagree with the court below as to the right of the Commission to classify examiners into grades within an agency and hold that such classification can be made, it must follow that promotions from one grade to another may be made.
But respondents also challenge the method by which promotions are made. The rule provides that the agency shall decide if there is a vacancy to be filled, and further that the agency shall decide if this vacancy is to be filled by promotion from among the present examiners. The examiners insist that thus the agency can control and coerce its examiners, and has an absolute veto power over promotions. But it is the Commission which chooses the examiner who shall receive the promotion. Respondents imagine all sorts of devious schemes by which the agencies shrewdly analyze their staffs to pick out which examiners would probably be chosen by the Commission for promotion, and then create vacancies for them as a reward for favorable decisions, or else fill vacancies from outside in order to discipline recalcitrant examiners. Respondents have not shown any actual examples of this, nor do they show that in such circumstances the Commission would not correct the situation.  As a practical matter, the Commission must always turn to the agency for advice on the number of examiners needed at the various levels.  The statute declares that "there shall be appointed by and for  each agency as many qualified and competent examiners as may be necessary." (Emphasis supplied.) It then puts sufficient responsibility in the Commission's hands to ensure independent judgments from the examiners. It does not reduce the responsibility of the agency to see that it has a sufficient number of competent examiners to handle its business properly.
We come next to   Rule 34.12, Rotation of Examiners. It provides:
"Insofar as practicable, examiners shall be assigned in rotation to cases of the level of difficulty and importance that are normally assigned to positions of the salary grade they hold." 5 CFR, 1951 Supp., § 34.12.
This rule purports to implement the provision of § 11 that examiners "shall be assigned to cases in rotation so far as practicable." (Emphasis supplied.) The respondents contend that this means mechanical rotation -- that a case must be assigned to an examiner when his name comes up on the register, unless he is on leave or sick or disqualified or has not completed another assignment, etc.  The lower courts accepted the respondents' view and held Rule 34.12 invalid.
The Commission gave to § 11's requirement of assignment of cases in rotation  "so far as practicable" consideration beyond the mere mechanics of bringing the next case on the docket opposite the top name on the register of available examiners. It gave consideration to the kind of case involved as well as the kind of examiner available.  The Commission had classified the examiners on that basis, and it considered it was practicable to assign cases to examiners who were, according to their classification, qualified to handle the case at hand, having regard to the complexity and difficulty   thereof, together with the experience and ability of the examiner available.  If assigned by mechanical rotation, the value and use of such classification, which Congress had authorized, would be lost.  To use the classification, it was not practicable to use mechanical rotation. Congress did not provide for the classification of examiners by the Commission, and then provide for the Commission to ignore such classification by a mechanical rotation. The rotation for practical reasons was adjusted to the classifications. This was an allowable judgment by the Commission as to what was practicable.
Finally, we come to the consideration of   Rule 34.15, 8 which provides   for a reduction in force of examiners under circumstances   governing the reduction in force of other federal employees. Respondents' contention, sustained by the courts below, is that the provision of § 11 that examiners "shall be removable . . . only for good cause established and determined by the Civil Service Commission . . . after opportunity for hearing and upon the record thereof" gives them a lifetime position, subject to removal only for cause, and that the reduction in force procedures of the Commission have no application to them.
In this, we think the respondents are mistaken. Congress intended to provide tenure for the examiners in the tradition of the Civil Service Commission.  They were not to be paid, promoted, or discharged at the whim or caprice of the agency or for political reasons.  One of the individual examiners suing here was discharged by the Labor Board for lack of funds.  The Commission has traditionally provided for a reduction in force for lack of funds, personnel ceilings, reorganizations, decrease of work, and similar reasons.  5 CFR, 1951 Supp., § 20.2 (a).
Part of respondents' argument seems to direct itself to the point that it is the agency which makes the reduction in force.   Rule 34.15 provides for the dropping of examiners with the lowest number of "retention credits" after the agency finds that it must reduce its force.  These credits are based on length of service and are beyond the power of the agency to affect. As with promotions, the Commission will always need to consult with the agency to ascertain that there is occasion for a reduction. Just as the statute leaves with the agency the duty to see that there are an adequate number of the right type of examiners, it leaves  with the agency the responsibility to declare that there are a lesser number of examiners necessary at this time.  It must be assumed that the Commission will prevent any devious practice by an agency which would abuse this Rule.  The Rule provides for examiner appeal to the Commission, so there is opportunity to bring abuses to the Commission's attention.  Also challenged is   the statement in the Retention Preference Regulations for Reduction in Force (5 CFR, 1951, § 20.2) allowing reduction in force "for other reasons." This is obviously to provide for legitimate reasons for reduction not now foreseen, and it must be assumed that the Commission will not permit an agency to misuse it.
We find no evidence that Congress intended to make hearing examiners a class with lifetime employment, whether there was work for them to do or not, as contended by the respondents.  A reduction in force for the reasons heretofore provided by the Civil Service Commission and removal of an examiner in accordance therewith is "good cause" within the meaning of § 11.
The rules conform to the statute and carry out the purpose and intent 9 of Congress, and they are therefore valid.
The judgment is reversed, and the cause is remanded to the District Court with directions to dismiss the complaint.
Reversed.
<dissent author="BLACK" text="TRUE">
DISSENT BY: BLACK
MR. JUSTICE BLACK, with whom MR. JUSTICE FRANKFURTER and MR. JUSTICE DOUGLAS concur, dissenting.
I think these regulations should be held invalid and the judgment affirmed for substantially the reasons given in the opinion of Chief Judge Laws of the District Court for the District of Columbia.  104 F.Supp. 734. I wish   to add a few words merely to emphasize certain aspects of that opinion.
The Administrative Procedure Act was designed to give trial examiners in the various administrative agencies a new status of freedom from agency control. Henceforth they were to be "very nearly the equivalent of judges even though operating within the Federal system of administrative justice." 1 Agencies were stripped of power to remove examiners working with them.  Henceforth removal could be effected only after hearings by the Civil Service Commission.  That same Commission was empowered to prescribe an examiner's compensation independently of recommendations or ratings by the agency in which the examiner worked.  And to deprive regulatory agencies  of all power to pick particular examiners for particular cases, § 11 of the Act commanded that examiners be "assigned to cases in rotation so far as practicable . . . ." I agree with the District Court and the Court of Appeals that the regulations here sustained go a long way toward frustrating the purposes of Congress to give examiners independence. 2
Section 11 of the Administrative Procedure Act, as pointed out, provides that examiners may be removed "only for good cause established" after hearings.  One of the regulations here approved authorizes their removal when an agency finds it necessary to reduce its force.  We have been pointed to no act of Congress which justifies this regulation.
Another regulation here approved permits the assignment of cases to examiners by "classification"  instead of by "rotation" as § 11 requires.  I do not agree with the Court that the Classification Act of 1923 or any other act of Congress authorizes the distinctions here made between examiners. In fact, the Administrative Procedure Act appears to contemplate that all examiners employed by a particular agency stand on equal footing in regard to service and pay.  A central objective was to prevent agency heads from using powers over assignments to influence cases.  Unlimited discretion in assignment would lead to subservient examiners, it was thought.  But the effect of the Civil Service classifications is to restore the unlimited discretion existing before passage of the Administrative Procedure Act.
The distinctions depended upon to support the different classifications are so nebulous that the head of an agency is left practically free to select any examiner he chooses for any case he chooses.  For the regulations permit the head of an agency to assign a particular case on the basis of whether the head of the agency believes it to be "moderately difficult and important," "difficult and important," "unusually difficult and important," "exceedingly difficult and important,"  or "exceptionally difficult and important." And administrative agencies are permitted to attribute choice of a particular examiner for a particular case to considerations whether "complex legal, economic, financial or technical questions or matters" are merely "moderately complex," "fairly complex," "extremely complex," "exceptionally complex," or just "complex."   I think all these conceptualistic distinctions mean is that the congressional command for a nonagency controlled rotation of cases is buried under words.
XXX
