OPINION
MR. JUSTICE BLACK delivered the opinion of the Court.
The question presented is whether a towboat may validly contract against all liability for its own negligent towage. Since there is no controlling statute the question must be decided as a part of the judicially created admiralty law.  Federal courts have disagreed as to whether   there is or should be a judicial rule invalidating such contracts.  Calling attention to this uncertainty, the District Court, sitting in admiralty, sustained a contractual provision exempting respondent towboat owner from liability for negligence and entered judgment accordingly.  114 F.Supp. 713. The Court of Appeals affirmed.  211 F.2d 401. We granted certiorari to settle the question.  348 U.S. 811.
The record including the findings of fact shows: Petitioner's oil barge Bisso while being towed up the Mississippi River by the respondent's steam towboat Cairo collided with a bridge pier and sank.  At the time, the barge had no motive power, steering apparatus, officers or crew, its movements being completely controlled by the Cairo.  Negligent towage by those operating the Cairo caused the collision.  Consequently, respondent, owner of the Cairo, would have been required to pay petitioner damages unless relieved of liability by certain clauses in the towage contract.  One provides that the towing movement should be at the "sole risk" of the barge, and a second provides that masters, crews and employees of the towboat Cairo should "in the performance of said service, become and be the servants" of the barge Bisso.  The Court of Appeals construed both these clauses as relieving respondent from liability for its negligence and held both valid.
A release-from-liability clause in a towage contract was first considered by this Court in 1871 in The Steamer Syracuse, 12 Wall. 167. There negligent towage by the Syracuse damaged a canalboat being towed. To escape liability owners of the towboat relied on a contractual agreement that "the canal-boat was being towed at her own risk." Notwithstanding the agreement, this Court held that the towboat "must be visited with the consequences" of its negligence. 1 For many years The Syracuse seems to have been generally accepted as either (1) construing a contract to "tow at own risk" as not including an exemption from negligence, or (2) holding invalid as against public policy a contract   which exempts a tower from his negligence. 2
In 1909 The Syracuse was repudiated by the Second Circuit in The Oceanica, 170 F. 893. That court construed a contract requiring a towed vessel to "assume all risks" as exempting the tower from responsibility for its negligence; it also held, over strong dissent, that the contract was not invalid as against public policy. And on rehearing the court conceded that "the decision of the majority of the court as to the right of a tug to contract against her own negligence is a departure from previous decisions." The court went on to express hope that the question would "be set at rest in this case by the Supreme Court." Certiorari was denied, 3 however, and courts in the Second Circuit continued to follow the newly announced Oceanica doctrine. 4 But other circuits continued to refuse to allow towboats by contract to escape liability for their negligent towage. 5
It was in that state of intercircuit conflict that this Court again, in 1928, considered the effect of a contract claimed to exempt a towboat from its negligence.  The Wash Gray, 277 U.S. 66. 6 The contract involved provided that the towboat should not be "responsible in any way for loss or damage" to the Wash Gray, the vessel being towed. This Court was urged to follow The Oceanica. But counsel for the Wash Gray, relying on The Syracuse, insisted that recovery for "actionable negligence is not barred by release in contract for towage." 7 Without mention of The Oceanica this Court said: "We do not think that the towing contract has the effect claimed for it by the companies.  It did not release the  . . . from any loss or damage to the 'Wash Gray' due to the negligence of the master or crew of the towing vessel . . . .  The rule laid down by this Court in The Steamer Syracuse . . . covers the point." 277 U.S., at 73. The contracts in The Syracuse and The Wash Gray were worded quite differently, and there is little indication that the "rule" the Court had in mind was one of mere contractual interpretation.  Rather a public policy objection to such contracts was indicated by the Court's quoting from that part of The Syracuse opinion which pointed out that despite the contract there the towboat had to bear the consequences of its negligence even though the law had not imposed on it the obligations resting on a common carrier. 8
It is nevertheless argued that The Syracuse and The Wash Gray did not announce a rule of public policy against release-from-negligence contracts but decided no more than what the towage contracts in those cases meant.  Strong arguments can be made in support of this contention but we think stronger arguments can be made against it.  The Syracuse was decided in an era of manifest judicial hostility toward release-from-negligence contracts, particularly those made by businesses dealing widely with the public and having potential monopolistic powers. 9 That hostility caused this Court two years later to declare that public policy forbade common carriers to make such contracts. 10 The next year telegraph company contracts were brought under the same ban although the Court stated they were not common carriers. 11 Largely because of this general judicial attitude and the influence of The Syracuse no towage release-from-negligence clause appears to have been enforced by any court for 38 years.  During that period and later enforcement was refused in two ways -- either by giving such contracts a very narrow construction or by holding them to be against public policy. One court even expressly declared it to be "contrary to public policy to so construe" a contract that a tower could be allowed to go clear of all liability for his own negligence. 12 When the Second Circuit belatedly departed from The Syracuse other courts still refused to enforce towers' stipulations against their negligence.  And when this Court was urged in The Wash Gray to repudiate The Syracuse by following The Oceanica the answer was an emphatic reiteration and approval of the language and holding of The Syracuse.  Viewed in light of this history, we think The Syracuse, The Wash Gray and intervening lower court cases together strongly point to the existence of a judicial rule, based on public policy, invalidating contracts releasing towers from all liability for their negligence. 13   Because of this judicial history and cogent reasons in support of a rule outlawing such contracts we now, despite past uncertainty and difference among the circuits, accept this as the controlling rule.
This rule is merely a particular application to the towage business of a general rule long used by courts and legislatures to prevent enforcement of release-from-negligence contracts in many relationships such as bailors and   bailees, 14 employers and employees, 15 public service companies   and their customers. 16 The two main reasons for the creation and application of the rule have been (1) to discourage negligence by making wrongdoers pay damages, and (2) to protect those in need of goods or services from being overreached by others who have power to drive hard bargains. 17 These two reasons are no less applicable today than when The Syracuse and The Wash Gray were decided.  And both reasons apply with equal force whether tugs operate as common carriers or contract carriers. 18 The dangers of modern machines make it all the more necessary that negligence be discouraged.  And increased maritime traffic of today makes it not less but more important that vessels in American ports be able to obtain towage free of monopolistic compulsions.
The practical result of leaving towers wholly free to contract against all liability for their negligence is strikingly illustrated in an English case. The Port of London controlled and operated all tugs in the harbor and by law no ship could enter without the aid of Port Authority tugs. But no shipowner could get a Port tug unless he first signed a contract agreeing to be liable for all damages caused by the negligence of the tug's employees.  Under such a contract the court allowed the Port Authority to recover damages from a ship towed for injuries to the Port's tug caused by negligence of the Port's employees running the tug. 19 Such a result would be impossible under the rule we accept as controlling.
It is contended that the towage contract rule we have accepted was rejected by this Court in Sun Oil Co. v. Dalzell Towing Co., 287 U.S. 291. 20 We disagree. Unlike The Syracuse, The Wash Gray and the instant case, Sun Oil did not involve a contract designed to relieve a towboat owner from liability for negligent towage. The contractual clause there involved related only to pilotage. The clause provided that a tug captain who piloted a vessel propelled on its own power should be considered the servant of that vessel and that the   tug owners should not be liable for his negligent pilotage. 21 Sun Oil construed this contract as relieving the tugboat owners from all liability for negligence of the tug captain while piloting Sun Oil's vessel and held the contract valid as thus construed.  But both the Court of Appeals 22 and this Court recognized that holding the pilotage contract valid did not conflict with The Syracuse or The Wash Gray.  Indeed, this Court expressly stated that the Sun Oil decree was "not in conflict with the decisions" in The Syracuse and The Wash Gray.  It is of course possible that the Court found an absence of conflict in the cases because of a different construction given the different contracts involved.  We doubt this, but however this may be there are more basic differences upon which we prefer to rest this Court's statement that Sun Oil did not conflict with the two prior cases.
There are distinctions between a pilotage and a towage exemption clause which make it entirely reasonable to hold one valid and the other invalid. A pilotage clause exempts for the negligence of pilots only; a towage clause exempts from all negligence of all towage employees.  Pilots hold a unique position in the maritime world and have been regulated extensively both by the States and Federal Government. 23 Some state laws make them public officers, chiefly responsible to the State, not to any private employer.  Under law and custom they have an independence wholly incompatible with the general obligations of obedience normally owed by an employee to his employer. 24 Their fees are fixed by law and their charges must not be discriminatory.  As a rule no employer, no person, can tell them how to perform their pilotage duties.  When the law does not prescribe their duties, pilots are usually free to act on their own best judgment while engaged in piloting a vessel. Because of these differences between pilots and towage employees generally, contracts stipulating against a pilot's negligence cannot be likened to contracts stipulating against towers' negligence.  It is one thing to permit a company to exempt itself from liability for the negligence of a licensed pilot navigating another company's vessel on that vessel's own power.  That was the Sun Oil case.  It is quite a different thing, however, to permit a towing company to exempt itself by contract from all liability for its own employees' negligent towage of a vessel. Thus, holding the pilotage contract valid in the Sun Oil case in no way conflicts with the rule against permitting towers by contract wholly to escape liability for their own negligent towing. That rule renders invalid the first provision of the contract in this case that the towing had to be done at the sole risk of the towed vessel.
The second clause in the contract -- that the employees of the towboat Cairo should be servants of the barge Bisso -- likewise cannot be enforced.  For if valid, the only effect of that clause would be to shift all liability for negligent towage from the towboat to the vessel being towed, precisely what the first clause attempted to do. This is true because employees of a towboat do not become employees of a vessel being towed just because a contract says so, when as here the workers are in truth and in fact solely employees of the towboat. 25 This towboat belonged to respondent. It was manned by workers hired and paid by respondent.  They remained at all times subject to respondent's complete control.  In contrast, the owners of the barge being towed never had any relationship of any kind or character with those who controlled and operated the towboat.   The rule against contractual exemption of a towboat from responsibility for its own negligence cannot be defeated by the simple expedient of providing in a contract that all employees of a towboat shall be employees of the towed vessel when the latter "employment" is purely a fiction.
Reversed.
MR. JUSTICE HARLAN took no part in the consideration or decision of this case.
<concur author="DOUGLAS" text="TRUE">
CONCUR BY: DOUGLAS
MR. JUSTICE DOUGLAS, concurring. *
I join in the opinion of the Court.  I do not think we know enough about the economics and organization of this business 1 to change the established rule of The Steamer Syracuse, 12 Wall. 167, 171, and The Wash Gray, 277 U.S. 66, 73, that a tug may not contract against her own negligence.
I agree with the Court that Sun Oil Co. v. Dalzell Towing Co., 287 U.S. 291, was not a departure from that rule.  In that case the vessel which was being assisted by the tugs was under her own power and was manned by her own crew. The negligence was that of a tug captain on board the vessel under tow. The Court enforced the contract, which made his negligence the negligence of the vessel, under the familiar rule that "when one puts his employee at the disposal and under the direction of another for the performance of service for the latter, such employee while so engaged acts directly for and is to be deemed the employee of the latter and not of the former." Id., at 295.
In the Sun Oil case, the tug was not a common carrier or a contract carrier. It was merely assisting a vessel under her own power.  Here we are dealing with dead tows, where the tug and the tug alone is in control, where the tows are without power and without crews.
In that situation, the tugboats are common carriers 2 when they so hold themselves out (Stimson Lumber Co. v. Kuykendall, 275 U.S. 207;  Cornell Steamboat Co. v. United States, 321 U.S. 634) or contract carriers.
So far as we know, the tugboats in the present cases are as much common carriers as the tugboats in the Cornell Steamboat case and the Stimson Lumber Co. case.
Common carriers may not "by any form of agreement secure exemption from liability for loss or damage caused by their own negligence." Sun Oil Co . v. Dalzell Towing Co., supra, at 294. See Railroad Co. v. Lockwood, 17 Wall. 357; Liverpool Steam Co. v. Phenix Ins. Co., 129 U.S. 397. The reasons are as germane to a tugboat that is a contract carrier as they are to a tugboat that is a common carrier. They were well stated by Judge Coxe, dissenting in The Oceanica, 170 F. 893, 896:
"It ought to be against public policy to permit a vessel to contract against her own fault.  To allow her to do so begets recklessness, carelessness and neglect. The same reasons for prohibiting such a contract in the case of common carriers apply, though not, perhaps, to the same extent, in the case of a towage contract.  In both cases the design is to prevent those who have the absolute control of another's property from extorting an agreement that they may neglect all reasonable precautions to preserve it."
If the tug is only a contract carrier, it is not liable for injury to the tow in the absence of negligence.  See Stevens v. The White City, 285 U.S. 195.But though a contract carrier, the tug may as effectively command the market and have as complete control of the tow and cargo as any common carrier. The reasons stated by Judge Coxe seem, therefore,  as germane to the contract carrier as to the common carrier.
It may be that the rule of The Syracuse is outmoded and should be changed.  It may be that the tugboat industry is less able to carry the risks of those losses than its customers.  It may be fairer in the long run to let the tugboat operator free himself from his own negligence and transfer the liability to the shippers who employ his services.  But the very statement of the problem raises large questions of policy on which the present records throw no light.  We would have to know much more about the economics and organization of the tugboat   industry than we are offered here to fashion a new rule. 3 Accordingly, I would continue to enforce the established rule of The Syracuse that has its roots deep in history and experience, until and unless Congress adopts another one.
<dissent author="FRANKFURTER" text="TRUE">
DISSENT BY: FRANKFURTER
MR. JUSTICE FRANKFURTER, whom MR. JUSTICE REED and MR. JUSTICE BURTON join, dissenting.
Drawing on its constitutional powers in matters maritime (Art. III, ยง 2), this Court has probably made as much substantive admiralty law through adjudication as has Congress by legislation.  Indeed, not a little of legislation has displaced or modified the Court's decisions.  This creative judicial function of making admiralty law remains unimpaired, so that it is within the Court's jurisdiction now to announce, as new doctrine, that tow and tug may not by agreement relieve the tug of liability for damage to the tow caused by the tug's negligence.  Of course, the Court should not restrict the area of full bargaining between tow and tug unless an overriding public interest calls for such restriction.
But the Court does not now profess to originate a doctrine of invalidity of such an agreement.  Pervading the Court's opinion is the assumption that it is merely making explicit what has been the presupposition and direction, if not the unequivocal pronouncement, of the controlling body of decisions.  These decisions, we are told, "strongly point to the existence of a judicial rule, based on public policy, invalidating contracts releasing towers from all liability for their negligence." On this assumption, one easily slides to the Court's conclusion.  Such an assumption almost implies the conclusion, for a long-established rule, not remotely related to any constitutional question and readily amenable to legislative change, should be adhered to.  Especially in the domain of commercial affairs, stare decisis has a strong social justification.  In conducting their affairs, men naturally assume that courts will not unsettle a settled rule for the conduct of business, certainly not unless experience has made manifest the need for overturning the law.
To assert that a rule has been established by courts necessarily implies authoritative pronouncement of a doctrine, its application to litigation, and its continuing vitality.  Such a rule ought to be found in adjudications in this Court or at the very least -- in the case of maritime matters -- in the weight of authority in lower courts, particularly in the Southern District of New York where admiralty law has to such a large extent developed.  The claimed rule cannot avouch the decisions in this Court nor the body of lower court decisions. In their entirety, the decisions reflect the opposite.  A critical examination of them yields these conclusions:
(1) In The Steamer Syracuse, 12 Wall. 167, this Court did not have before it any claim of exemption from all negligence such as is presented here.  The Steamer Syracuse therefore could not have decided, and it did not purport to decide, the validity of such an exemption. The Wash Gray, 277 U.S. 66, purports to be no more than a decision on a question of construction, in which The Steamer Syracuse was cited as precedent for placing a narrow construction on exculpatory clauses.
(2) The Circuits other than the Ninth do not disclose decisions that towboats cannot by contract escape liability for negligent towage. In the Ninth there is talk, not decision.
(3) In respecting an agreement for exemption in the case of a private carrier, we do not disregard any decision of this Court or any persuasive body of authority in the Courts of Appeals.  On the other hand,  to recognize the validity of such a provision accords with the decisions and pronouncements of the two Circuits having the most active admiralty business, and with the underlying considerations of policy upon which this Court very recently and unanimously enforced a similar provision for exemption in Sun Oil Co. v. Dalzell Towing Co., 287 U.S. 291.
The materials on which these conclusions are based are not esoteric.  They are to be assessed, of course, according to time-honored rules for reading cases -- that cases hold only what they decide, not what slipshod or ignorant headnote writers state them to decide; that decisions are one thing, gratuitous remarks another.  A stew may be a delicious dish.  But a stew is not to be made in law by throwing together indiscriminately decision and dicta, cases involving common carriers and private carriers, cases involving monopolistic or otherwise patently unequal bargaining power and cases arising under contracts between parties bargaining at arm's length.
It is essential in examining these cases to differentiate sharply between construction and validity.  Since negligence is the ordinary basis for liability, relief from it should be clearly agreed upon between the parties and ambiguity should not leave the extent of such relief in doubt.  Accordingly, provisions for exemption are closely scrutinized by courts and doubts either as to the existence of the provision of exemption or its scope are resolved against relief from responsibility.  It is fair to say that a number of the cases relied upon for support against the validity of an exemption are cases in which the existence of such a provision was not established or its meaning was appropriately given limited scope.
These conclusions require documentation.
