OPINION
MR. JUSTICE BURTON delivered the opinion of the Court.
As in First Iowa Coop. v. Federal Power Commission, 328 U.S. 152, this case illustrates the integration of the federal and  state jurisdictions in licensing water power projects under the Federal Power Act. 1 In the First Iowa case we sustained the authority of the Commission to license a power project to use navigable waters of the United States located in Iowa.  Here, without finding that the waters are navigable, the Commission has issued a comparable license for a power project to use waters on lands constituting reservations of the United States located in Oregon.  The State of Oregon questions the authority of the Commission to do this and the adequacy of the provisions approved by the Commission for the conservation of anadromous fish. 2 For the reasons hereafter stated, we sustain the Commission.
In 1949, the Northwest  Power Supply Company of Portland, Oregon, applied to the Federal Power Commission for a license to construct, operate and maintain a hydroelectric plant, constituting Pelton Project No. 2030, on reserved lands of the United States on the Deschutes River in Oregon, 3 and, in 1951, the Portland General Electric Company of Portland, Oregon, succeeded to a supplementary application for that license.
The Pelton Project is designed to include a concrete dam 205 feet high and a powerhouse containing three 36,000-kilowatt generators.  It is to be built across the Deschutes River on reserved lands of the United States located below the junction of its Metolius and Crooked River tributaries. 4 The  western terminus of the dam is to occupy lands, within the Warm Springs Indian Reservation, which have been reserved by the United States for power purposes since 1910 and 1913. 5 The eastern terminus of the dam is to be on lands of the United States which, at least since 1909, have been withdrawn from entry under the public land laws and reserved for power purposes. 6 The project calls for no permanent diversion of water as the entire flow of the river will run through or over the dam into the natural bed of the stream. This dam will make available the head and volume of water required for the project and the water impounded by it will create a narrow reservoir, submerging lands the title to which is or will be in the United States.  Variations and interruptions in the flow of the stream, caused by temporary storage or use of water for power purposes, are to be controlled by a "reregulating dam" approved by the Commission and located on private property, to be acquired, about three miles below the power dam. No objection is made to the reregulating dam. To the extent that access to existing spawning grounds for anadromous fish is cut off by the power dam, other facilities  on private property, to be acquired, are to be constructed and maintained on terms approved by the Commission and designed to develop an equal or greater fish population.  Opportunities for recreational uses of the area are to be enhanced and no issue as to water pollution is before us.
The State of Oregon, the Fish Commission of Oregon, the Oregon State Game Commission and the Oregon Division of the Izaak Walton League intervened before the Commission and each filed objections to the granting of the license. Some of their objections related to the authority of the Commission to grant the license and others to the suitability of the proposed fish conservation facilities.
Following extended hearings, the Commission's presiding examiner recommended the license. After exceptions to that recommendation the Commission issued its opinion and an order granting the license. 10 F. P. C. 445, 450, 92 P. U. R. (N. S.) 247. The Commission found that a public need exists for the early completion of the project to meet a severe power shortage in the Pacific Northwest.  It found also that the project is in the public interest, will provide for comprehensive development of the affected stretch of the Deschutes River, and will be consistent with further comprehensive development of that stream and of the Columbia Basin.  It held that the improvements will contribute valuable public benefits which will not be available if the river is maintained in its present natural  condition. 7 The Commission stated that the project will be subject to all existing rights to the use of the waters of the river, whether perfected or not.  It prescribed temporary measures to be taken to meet the needs of the anadromous fish during the construction of the project and approved certain permanent facilities, practices and expenditures in relation to such fish. The opinion stated "that no substantial evidence has been brought forward to show that the facilities proposed for conserving the fish will not maintain existing runs.  Moreover, there are indications that the runs can be increased." 10 F. P. C., at 450, 92 P. U. R. (N. S.), at 252.
A rehearing being denied, the State and its agencies sought a review by the Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit and the Portland General Electric Company intervened.  That court, with one judge dissenting, set aside the Commission's order.  211 F.2d 347. It recognized the necessity of a license from the Federal Power Commission but held that Congress, by its public lands legislation, long ago had transferred to the State of Oregon such control over the use of nonnavigable waters that the sponsor of the Pelton Project must secure also the permission prescribed by the State.  We granted certiorari because of the public significance of the issues but denied leave to the Portland General Electric Company to intervene here.  348 U.S. 868. 28 U. S. C. § 1254 (1); 49 Stat. 860-861, 16 U. S. C. § 825l (b).  Several States filed briefs as amici curiae, usually adopting as their own the brief filed by respondents.
We divide our consideration of the issues into three parts.
I. APPLICABILITY OF THE FEDERAL POWER ACT.
On its face, the Federal Power Act applies to this license as specifically as it did to the license in the First Iowa case. There the jurisdiction of the Commission  turned almost entirely upon the navigability of the waters of the United States to which the license applied.  Here the jurisdiction turns upon the ownership or control by the United States of the reserved lands on which the licensed project is to be located. 8   The authority to issue licenses in relation to navigable waters of the United States springs from the Commerce Clause of the Constitution. The authority to do so in relation to public lands and reservations of the United States springs from the Property Clause -- "The Congress shall have Power to dispose of and make all needful Rules and Regulations respecting the Territory or other Property belonging to the United States . . . ." Art. IV, § 3. 9
In the instant case the project is to occupy lands which come within the term "reservations," as distinguished from "public lands."   In the Federal Power Act, each has its established meaning.  "Public lands" are lands subject to private appropriation and disposal under public land laws. "Reservations" are not so subject. 10 The title to the lands upon which the eastern terminus of the dam is to rest has been in the United States since the cession by Great Britain of the area now comprising the  State of Oregon.  Even if formerly they may have been open to private appropriation as "public lands," they were withdrawn from such availability before any vested interests conflicting with the Pelton Project were acquired. 11 Title to the bed of the Deschutes River is also in the United States. 12 Since the Indian Treaty of 1855, the lands within the Indian reservation, upon which the western end of the dam will rest, have been reserved for the use of the Indians.  More recently they were reserved for power purposes 13 and the Indians have given their consent to the project before us.  Accordingly, there is no issue here as to whether or not the title to the tribal lands is in the United States. 14
There thus remains no question as to the constitutional and statutory authority of the Federal Power Commission   to grant a valid license for a power project on reserved lands of the United States, provided that, as required by the Act, the use of the water does not conflict with vested rights of others. 15 To allow Oregon to veto such use, by requiring the State's additional permission, would result in the very duplication of regulatory control precluded by the First Iowa decision.  328 U.S. 152, 177-179.   No such duplication of authority is called for by the Act. 16 The Court of Appeals in the instant case agrees. 211 F.2d, at 351. And see Washington Department of Game v. Federal Power Commission, 207 F.2d 391, 395-396.   Authorization of this project, therefore, is within the exclusive jurisdiction of the Federal  Power Commission, unless that jurisdiction is modified by other federal legislation. See United States v. Rio Grande Irrigation Co., 174 U.S. 690, 703; Gutierres v. Albuquerque Land Co., 188 U.S. 545, 554.
II. INAPPLICABILITY OF THE DESERT LAND ACT OF 1877 AND RELATED ACTS.
The State of Oregon argues that the Acts of July 26, 1866, 17 July 9, 1870, 18 and the Desert Land Act of 1877 19 constitute an express congressional delegation or conveyance to the State of the power to regulate the use of these waters. The argument is that these Acts preclude or restrict the scope of the jurisdiction, otherwise apparent on the face of the Federal Power Act, and require the consent of the State to a project such as the one before us.
The nature and effect of these Acts have been discussed previously by this Court.  The purpose of the Acts of 1866 and 1870 was governmental recognition and sanction of possessory rights on public lands asserted under local laws and customs.  Jennison v. Kirk, 98 U.S. 453. The Desert Land Act severed, for purposes of private acquisition, soil and water rights on public lands, and provided that such water rights were to be acquired in the manner provided by the law of the State of location.  California Oregon Power Co. v. Beaver Portland Cement Co., 295 U.S. 142. See also, Nebraska v. Wyoming, 325 U.S. 589, 611-616.
It is not necessary for us, in the instant case, to pass upon the question whether this legislation constitutes the express delegation or conveyance of power that is claimed by the State, because these Acts are not applicable to the reserved lands and waters here involved.  The Desert Land Act covers "sources of water supply upon the public lands . . . ." The lands before us in this case are not "public lands" but "reservations." Even without that express restriction of the Desert Land Act to sources of water supply on public lands, these Acts would not apply to reserved lands. "It is a familiar principle of public land law that statutes providing generally for disposal of the public domain are inapplicable to lands which are not unqualifiedly subject to sale and disposition because they have been appropriated to some other purpose." United States v. O'Donnell, 303 U.S. 501, 510. See also, United States v. Minnesota, 270 U.S. 181, 206. The instant lands certainly "are not unqualifiedly subject to sale and disposition . . . ." Accordingly, it is enough, for the instant case, to recognize that these Acts do not apply to this license, which relates only to the use of waters on reservations of the United States.
III. APPLICATION OF THE FEDERAL POWER ACT TO THIS PROJECT.
Finally, respondents question the discretion used by the Commission in granting the license. They point to the consequences which the project will have beyond the limits of the reserved lands on which it will be located.
The first consequence is the inevitable variation in, or the temporary interruption of, the flow of the stream. The Commission is satisfied that it has overcome this objection by its provision  for a reregulating dam. It has approved the technical features involved and the site for that dam will be acquired in accordance with the property laws of Oregon. 20 In this reregulation of the flow of the stream, the Commission acts on behalf of the people of Oregon, as well as all others, in seeing to it that the interests of all concerned are adequately protected.
There remains the effect of the project upon anadromous fish which use these waters as spawning grounds.  All agree that the 205-foot dam will cut off access of some fish to their natural spawning grounds above the dam and that such interruption cannot  be overcome by fish ladders. 21 However, the State does not flatly prohibit the construction of dams that cut off anadromous fish from their spawning or breeding grounds. 22 One alternative, thus recognized, is the supplying of new breeding pools to which the fish can be removed at appropriate times. 23 The Fish Commission of Oregon has denied a permit to the Portland General Electric Company to carry out its present proposal but there appears to be no disagreement as to the underlying principle involved. 24
The applicant has agreed to provide facilities for conserving the runs of anadromous fish in accordance with plans approved by the Federal Power Commission.  The capital cost of these facilities and of the reregulating dam, to be borne by the applicant, is estimated at $ 4,430,000. The total annual cost due to these facilities is estimated at $ 795,000.  The Commission has found each of these estimates to be reasonable.  Of the $ 795,000 annual cost, the applicant will bear $ 410,000 (cost of borrowed money, depreciation and taxes on the capital investment), and the $ 10,000 maintenance cost of the reregulating dam. In addition, it has offered to contribute $ 100,000 annually toward the estimated $ 375,000 cost of operation and maintenance of the fish conservation facilities, and the Commission has retained the power to fix the amount of the applicant's contribution if a sum is not agreed upon.
The care given to the preparation of this conservation program and the large investment to be made in it are impressive.  It also is of interest that the Fish Commission of Oregon already is operating somewhat comparable but smaller facilities of this kind on the Metolius  River.
One argument against the project goes beyond the need to conserve the existing fish population.  It is argued that the project will preclude the carrying out of certain plans for the Columbia River Basin which contemplate greatly enlarging the fish population in the Deschutes River area, by concentrating there other runs of fish not now using that river. While such an argument may properly be directed to the Federal Power Commission or to Congress, it is not one for us to answer upon the basis of existing legal rights.
We conclude, therefore, that, on the facts here presented, the Federal Power Act is applicable in accordance with its terms, and that the Federal Power Commission has acted within its powers and its discretion in granting the license now before us.
The judgment of the Court of Appeals, accordingly, is
Reversed.
MR. JUSTICE HARLAN took no part in the consideration or decision of this case.
<dissent author="DOUGLAS" text="TRUE">
DISSENT BY: DOUGLAS
MR. JUSTICE DOUGLAS, dissenting.
I would not suppose the United States could erect a dam on this nonnavigable river without obtaining its water rights in accordance with state law. If I am   right in that assumption, then this dam cannot be built without   satisfying Oregon's water-rights law.  For the federal licensee who will build this dam acquires all its rights from the United States.  And the United States cannot give what it does not have. 1
The argument pressed on us by the United States is akin to the one urged in Nebraska v. Wyoming, 325 U.S. 589, 611 et seq.  In that case, the United States struggled to be rid of the rule of law that made its water rights on nonnavigable streams of the West dependent on state law. It claimed that it owned all the unappropriated water in the basin of the North Platte River. The argument was made not only under the Reclamation Act of 1902, 32 Stat. 388, but also under the Desert Land Act of 1877, 19 Stat. 377, the Act involved here.  We reserved decision as to whether under some circumstances the United States might be the owner of unappropriated water rights.  But we held that under those Acts the United States took its water rights like other landowners, viz., pursuant to state law governing appropriation.
Unless we are to depart from that ruling, we must accept Oregon's claim here.
Oregon's position has for its support two other decisions of this Court, both construing the Desert Land Act. The first of these is California Oregon Power Co. v. Cement Co., 295 U.S. 142, which construed the provision of the Desert Land Act, crucial here, which  reads:
"all surplus water over and above such actual appropriation and use, together with the water of all lakes, rivers and other sources of water supply upon the public lands and not navigable, shall remain and be held free for the appropriation and use of the public for irrigation, mining and manufacturing purposes subject to existing rights."
The Court interpreted that provision as follows:
"The fair construction of the provision now under review is that Congress intended to establish the rule that for the future the land should be patented separately; and that all non-navigable waters thereon should be reserved for the use of the public under the laws of the states and territories named." 295 U.S. 142, 162.
That case, to be sure, involved a contest between private owners.  But the principle announced was shortly applied to the United States as a property owner on a nonnavigable stream. 2 In Ickes v. Fox, 300 U.S. 82, the   Court held that by the Desert Land Act, "if not before, Congress had severed the land and waters constituting the public domain and established the rule that for the future the lands should be patented separately.  Acquisition of the government title to a parcel of land was not to carry with it a water-right; but all non-navigable waters were reserved for the use of the public under the laws of the various arid-land states." Id., at 95.
The Fox case involved water rights of farmers under a federal irrigation project, the claim being that the United States, owner of the irrigation system, owned the water rights.  The Court rejected that claim and looked to state law to determine who had the water rights; and finding that the farmers owned them, the Court held that the United States was not an indispensable party in litigation concerning them.
Those cases should control here.  The Desert Land Act applies to "public lands"; and the Federal Power Act, 41 Stat. 1063, as amended, 16 U. S. C. § 791a et seq. , grants the Commission authority to issue licenses for power development "upon any part of the public lands and reservations of the United States." § 4 (e). The definition of those terms in the Act says nothing about water rights. 3   And, as I have pointed out, it has been the long-term policy of Congress to separate western land from water rights.
The final resort of the Commission is to the Act of June 25, 1910, 36 Stat. 847, providing:
"That the President may, at any time in his discretion, temporarily withdraw from settlement, location, sale, or entry any of the public lands of the United States including the District of Alaska and reserve the same for water-power sites, irrigation, classification of lands, or other public purposes to be specified in the orders of withdrawals, and such withdrawals or reservations shall remain in force until revoked by him or by an Act of Congress."
It was under this Act that some of the lands here involved were reserved for a power site. But the Act of June 25, 1910, by its very terms, did no more than withdraw these public lands "from settlement, location, sale, or entry." The Act did not purport to touch or change in any way the provision of the Desert Land Act that pertains to water rights.  If the words of the 1910 Act are to control, water rights remained undisturbed.  The lands remained "public lands," save only that settlers could not locate on them.  I assume that the United States could have recalled its grant of jurisdiction over water rights, saving, of course, all vested  rights.  But the United States has not expressly done so; and we should not construe any law as achieving that result unless the purpose of Congress is clear.
The reason is that the rule adopted by the Court profoundly affects the economy of many States, ten of whom are here in protest.  In the West, the United States owns a vast amount of land -- in some States, over 50 percent of all the land.  If by mere Executive action the federal lands may be reserved and all the water rights appurtenant to them returned to the United States, vast dislocations in the economies of the Western States may follow.  For the right of withdrawal of public lands granted by the 1910 Act is not only for "water-power sites" but for a host of public projects -- "irrigation, classifications of lands, or other public purposes." Federal officials have long sought that authority.  It has been consistently denied them.  We should deny it again.  Certainly the United States could not appropriate the water rights in defiance of Oregon law, if it built the dam. It should have no greater authority when it makes a grant to a private power group.
XXX
