OPINION
MR. JUSTICE DOUGLAS delivered the opinion of the Court.
Petitioner, a native-born citizen, is a physicist who has been connected with various federal projects and who has been associated as a teacher with several of our universities.  In March 1954 he applied for a passport to enable him to travel to India in order to accept a position as research physicist at the Tata Institute of Fundamental Research, affiliated with the University of Bombay.  In April 1954 the Director of the Passport Office advised him that his application was denied because the Department of State "feels that it would be contrary to the best interest of the United States to provide you passport facilities at this time."
Petitioner conferred with an officer of the Passport Office and as a result of that conversation executed an affidavit 1 which covered the wide range of matters inquired into and which stated in part:
"I am not now and I have never been a member of the Communist Party.
"With the possible exception of a casual and brief association with the work of the Joint Anti-Fascist Refugee Committee for a few months in 1941 and in 1942 (all as related below); I am not now and have never been a member of any of the organizations designated on the Attorney General's list (which I have carefully examined).
"I am not now engaged and I have never engaged in any activities which, so far as I know or at any time knew, support or supported the Communist movement.
"I wish to go abroad for the sole purpose of engaging in experimental research in physics at the Tata Institute of Fundamental Research in Bombay.  I am not going abroad to engage in any activities which, so far as I know or can imagine, will in any way advance the Communist movement."
The Director of the Passport Office wrote petitioner's lawyer in reply that the Department had given careful consideration to the affidavit and added, "in view of certain factors of Mr. Dayton's case which I am not at liberty to discuss with him, the Department must adhere to its previous decision that it would be contrary to the best interests of the United States to provide Mr. Dayton with passport facilities at this time." Later the Director wrote again, saying:
"In arriving at its decision to refuse passport facilities to Mr. Dayton, the Department took into consideration his connection with the Science for Victory Committee and his association at that time with various communists. However, the determining factor in the case was Mr. Dayton's association with persons suspected of being part of the Rosenberg espionage ring and his alleged presence at an apartment in New York which was allegedly used for microfilming material obtained for the use of a foreign government."
Thereupon petitioner, pursuant to the Passport Regulations of the Secretary of State, as amended, 22 CFR ยง 51.1 et seq., filed a petition of appeal, with the   Board of Passport Appeals. 2 He also requested, pursuant to the Regulations, 3 information from the Board of particulars concerning three items: (1) petitioner's alleged "association with various communists"; (2) his "association with persons suspected of being part of the Rosenberg espionage ring"; and (3) his "alleged presence at an apartment in New York which was allegedly used for microfilming material obtained for the use of a foreign government." The Board's reply contained some, but very little, of the information requested; and it stated:
"The file contains information indicating that the applicant was present at 65 Morton Street, New York City in the summer of 1949 (July or August) and at Apartment 61, 65 Morton Street, New York City, during the month of January 1950.  The applicant's relationship, if any (past or present), with the following-named persons is considered pertinent to the Board's review and consideration of the case: Marcel Scherer, Rose Segure, Sandra Collins, Frank Collins, Bernard Peters, Kurt Fritz, Karl Sitte, Louis S. Weiss, Alfred Sarant, and William Perl."
A hearing was held 4 at which witnesses for petitioner and for the State Department testified.  Pursuant to the Regulations 5 the Board announced, over petitioner's protest, that it would consider "a confidential file composed of investigative reports from Government agencies" which petitioner would not be allowed to examine. 6 Later petitioner was advised by the Acting Secretary of State that the Board had submitted its recommendation and that the Secretary, after "a review of the entire record and on the basis of all the evidence, including that contained in confidential reports of investigation," had denied the application.  The denial was rested specifically upon ยง 51.135 of the Regulations. 7
Petitioner then brought suit in the District Court for declaratory relief.  The District Court entered summary judgment for the Secretary.  The Court of Appeals reversed,  99 U. S. App. D. C. 47, 237 F.2d 43, and remanded the case to the Secretary for reconsideration in the light of its earlier decision in Boudin v. Dulles, 98 U. S. App. D. C. 305, 235 F.2d 532.
On remand the Secretary without further hearing denied the application under ยง 51.135 (c), 8 saying that "the issuance of a passport would be contrary to the national interest." The Secretary at this time filed a document called "Decision and Findings" which is reproduced as an Appendix to this opinion.
The District Court again granted summary judgment for the  Secretary, 146 F.Supp. 876; and the Court of Appeals affirmed by a divided vote,  102 U. S. App. D. C. 372, 254 F.2d 71. The case is here on a petition for a writ of certiorari.   355 U.S. 911.
The question most discussed in the briefs and on oral argument is whether the hearing accorded petitioner satisfied the requirements of due process.  A majority of the Court thinks we need not reach that constitutional question, since on their face these findings show only a denial of a passport for reasons which we have today held to be impermissible.  Kent v. Dulles, ante, p. 116.  Whether there are undisclosed grounds adequate to sustain the Secretary's action is not here for decision.
Reversed.
APPENDIX TO OPINION OF THE COURT.
