OPINION
MR. JUSTICE FRANKFURTER delivered the opinion of the Court.
Petitioner was convicted of knowingly and willfully evading the payment of income taxes for the years 1950, 1951 and 1952.  A substantial part of the alleged evasion was failure to report income from dividends. Among the Government's exhibits at trial was a record, presumably   contemporaneous and in the petitioner's handwriting, of dividends received during 1951 and 1952.  This record reflected an amount of dividend income for 1951 substantially larger than that reported on the 1951 return.  Petitioner contended that this record had been turned over to the accounting firm which regularly prepared his return,  Arthur R. Sanfilippo & Co., in early 1952 for use in preparing his 1951 return, but that the figures had not been accurately entered on the return by the accountants.  The Government's contention was that the record had not been given to the accounting firm until early 1953, subsequent to the initiation of the investigation of petitioner's tax affairs and long after the filing of the 1951 return.  The time at which the record had been given to the accountants thus became directly relevant to the issue of criminal intent in the charge against the petitioner.  Arthur R. Sanfilippo, an important government witness and the principal partner in the accounting firm, testified that his firm had not received the handwritten record of dividend income until early 1953.
Prior to the trial, on July 16, 1956, during the course of an interrogation by agents of the Internal Revenue Service, Sanfilippo had been unable to recall when the dividend record had been received.  More than a month later, August 23, 1956, Sanfilippo had met with revenue agents to verify and sign the transcript of his earlier testimony.  At this meeting he executed a supplementary affidavit reciting that he wished to clarify his original answers and that he remembered that his firm had not received the dividend record until after revenue agents had begun their investigation of petitioner's tax returns.  A memorandum of the conference at which this affidavit was executed was made by one of the agents present.  On cross-examination of Sanfilippo the defense demanded and received various documents including the transcript of the July 16 interrogation and the August 23 affidavit.  The defense also requested production of any memoranda, or of any part thereof summarizing what Sanfilippo had said, which had been made of the August 23 conference.  The trial judge denied this request on the ground that the Act of September 2, 1957, 71 Stat. 595, 18 U. S. C. ยง 3500 -- the so-called "Jencks" Act -- governing the production of statements made to government agents by government witnesses, precluded production of the requested memorandum since it was not within the definition of "statement" in (e) of the Act. 1 The Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit affirmed.   258 F.2d 397. Together with several other cases raising Jencks Act problems, we granted certiorari,  358 U.S. 905, to determine the scope and meaning of this new statute.
Accurate analysis of these problems as a basis of their appropriate solution requires due appreciation of the background against which the statutory terms must be projected.
Exercising our power, in the absence of statutory provision, to prescribe procedures for the administration of justice in the federal courts, this Court, on June 3, 1957, in  Jencks v. United States, 353 U.S. 657, decided that the defense in a federal criminal prosecution was entitled, under certain circumstances, to obtain, for impeachment purposes, statements which had been made to government agents by government witnesses.  These statements were therefore to be turned over to the defense at the time of cross-examination if their contents related to the subject matter of the witness' direct testimony, and if a demand had been made for specific statements which had been written by the witness or, if orally made, as recorded by agents of the Government.  We also held that the trial judge was not to examine the statements to determine if they contained material inconsistent with the testimony of the witness before deciding whether he would turn them over to the defense.  Once the statements had been shown to contain related material only the defense was adequately equipped to decide whether they had value for impeachment. This decision only concerned production and therefore did not purport to modify the laws of evidence governing the admissibility of prior statements of a witness.
The decision promptly gave rise to sharp controversy and concern.  The day following our opinion the House of Representatives was told that the decision in Jencks posed a serious problem of national security and that legislation would be introduced.  103 Cong. Rec. 8290.  The same day H. R. 7915, the first of eleven House bills dealing with what became the Jencks problem, was introduced in the House. 2 Defendants' counsel began to invoke the Jencks decision to justify demands for production far more sweeping than that involved in Jencks, and under circumstances far removed from those of that case, and some federal trial judges acceded to those excessive demands. 3 The Department of Justice, concerned over these rapid intrusions of Jencks into often totally unrelated areas, drafted legislation to clarify and delimit the reach of Jencks.  See 103 Cong. Rec. 15781.  On June 24, 1957, this legislation was introduced into the Senate by Senator O'Mahoney acting for himself and several other Senators.  103 Cong. Rec. 10057.  After study by a subcommittee of the Judiciary Committee the bill was reported out, 103 Cong. Rec. 10601, then withdrawn and a completely new measure substituted.  103 Cong. Rec. 14913.  When the bill reached the floor for debate Senator O'Mahoney proposed an amendment in the nature of a substitute which was adopted, 103 Cong. Rec. 15938, and the bill passed the Senate on August 26.  Ibid .  In the House the original H. R. 7915, after being amended in Committee, see 103 Cong. Rec. 10925, was passed on August 27, 103 Cong. Rec. 16130, and then substituted for the text of the Senate bill. 103 Cong. Rec. 16131.  The two versions went to Conference.  The Conference Report was agreed to by the Senate on August 29, 103 Cong. Rec. 16490, and by the House the next day.  103 Cong. Rec. 16742.  The Act was approved on September 2, and became law as ยง 3500 of the Criminal Code, 18 U. S. C. 4 Congress had determined to exercise its power to define the rules that should govern in this particular area in the trial of criminal cases instead of leaving the matter to the lawmaking of the courts.
In almost every enactment there are gaps to be filled and ambiguities to be resolved by judicial construction.  This statute is not free from them. Here, however, the detailed particularity with which Congress has spoken has narrowed the scope for needful judicial interpretation to an unusual degree. The statute clearly defines procedures and plainly indicates the circumstances for their application.  Since this case is the first calling for authoritative exposition of an Act that frequently comes into use in federal criminal prosecutions we deem it appropriate to explicate the construction of the statute required by the circumstances of this case.
1.   Subsection (a) requires that no statement of a government witness made to an agent of the Government and in the Government's possession shall be turned over to the defense until the witness has testified on direct examination.  This section manifests the general statutory aim to restrict the use of such statements to impeachment. Subsections (b), (c) and (d) provide procedures for the production of "statements," and for the consequences to the Government of failure to produce. Subsection (e) restrictively defines with particularity the term "statement" as used in the three preceding sections.  The suggestion that the detailed statutory procedures restrict only the production of the type of statement described in subsection (e), leaving all other statements, e. g., non-verbatim, non-contemporaneous records of oral statements, to be produced under pre-existing rules of procedure as if the statute had not been passed at all, flouts the whole history and purpose of the enactment.  It would mock Congress to attribute to it an intention to surround the production of the carefully restricted and most trustworthy class of statements with detailed procedural safeguards, while allowing more dubious and less reliable documents a more favored legal status, free from safeguards in the tournament of trials.  To state such a construction demonstrates its irrationality; the authoritative legislative history precludes its acceptance.
To be sure, the statute does not, in so many words, state that it is the exclusive, limiting means of compelling for cross-examination purposes the production of statements of a government witness to an agent of the Government. But some things too clearly evince a legislative enactment to call for a redundancy of utterance.  One of the most important motive forces behind the enactment of this legislation was the fear that an expansive reading of Jencks would compel the undiscriminating production of agent's summaries of interviews regardless of their character or completeness.  Not only was it strongly feared that disclosure of memoranda containing the investigative agent's interpretations and impressions might reveal the inner workings of the investigative process and thereby injure the national interest, but it was felt to be grossly unfair to allow the defense to use statements to impeach a witness which could not fairly be said to be the witness' own rather than the product of the investigator's selections, interpretations and interpolations.  The committee reports of both Houses and the floor debates clearly manifest the intention to avoid these dangers by restricting production to those statements specifically defined in the bill. 5 Indeed both the House   and Senate bills as they went to Conference explicitly so stated.  See 103 Cong. Rec. 16130; 103 Cong. Rec. 16125.  Nothing in the Conference Reports or the limited debate following Conference intimated the slightest intention to change the exclusive nature of the measure.  Indeed the reports and debate proceeded on the explicit assumption that the bill retained as a major purpose the barring of all statements not specifically defined. 6 The purpose of the Act, its fair reading and its overwhelming legislative history compel us to hold that   statements of a government witness made to an agent of the Government which cannot be produced under the terms of 18 U. S. C. ยง 3500 cannot be produced at all.
2. Since the statutory procedures are exclusive they constitute the rule of law governing the production of the statement at issue in this case and it becomes necessary to determine the scope and meaning of the statutory definition of "statement" contained in (e). Clause (1) of (e) permits the production of "a written statement made by said witness and signed or otherwise adopted or approved by him . . . ." Although some situations may arise, creating peripheral problems of construction, its import is clear.  Clause (2) widens the definition of "statement" to include "a stenographic, mechanical, electrical, or other recording, or a transcription thereof, which is a substantially verbatim recital of an oral statement made by said witness to an agent of the Government and recorded contemporaneously with the making of such oral statement." Clearly this provision allows the production of mechanical or stenographic recordings of oral statements, even though later transcribed.  A preliminary problem for determining that the statement now before us may be produced is whether the statutory phrase "other recording" allows an even wider scope for production.  We find the legislative history persuasive that the statute was meant to encompass more than mere automatic reproductions of oral statements. 7
However, such a finding is only the beginning of the task of construction.  It is clear that Congress was concerned that only those statements which could properly be called the witness' own words should be made available to the defense for purposes of impeachment. 8 It was important that the statement could fairly be deemed to reflect fully and without distortion what had been said to the government agent. Distortion can be a product of selectivity as well as the conscious or inadvertent infusion of the recorder's opinions or impressions. It is clear from the continuous congressional emphasis on "substantially verbatim recital," and "continuous, narrative statements made by the witness recorded verbatim, or nearly so . . . ," see Appendix B, post, p. 358, that the legislation was designed to eliminate the danger of distortion and misrepresentation inherent in a report which merely selects portions, albeit accurately, from a lengthy oral recital. Quoting out of context is one of the most frequent and powerful modes of misquotation.  We think it consistent with this legislative history, 9 and with the generally restrictive terms of the statutory provision, to require that   summaries of an oral statement which evidence substantial selection of material, or which were prepared after the interview without the aid of complete notes, and hence rest on the memory of the agent, are not to be produced.  Neither, of course, are statements which contain the agent's interpretations or impressions. In expounding this standard we do not wish to create the impression of a "delusive exactness." The possible permutations of fact and circumstance are myriad. Trial courts will be guided by the indicated standard, informed by fidelity to the congressional purposes we have outlined.  There is nothing impalpable about these provisions.  Since we feel the statutory standard has guiding definiteness, it would be idle to attempt a minute enumeration of particular situations to which it is to be applied.  Such a vain attempt at forecasting myriad diversities with minor variance is as futile and uncalled for in this as in so many other areas of the law.  That is what the judicial process is for -- to follow a generally clear direction in dealing with a new diversity as it may occasionally arise.  Final decision as to production must rest, as it does so very often in procedural and evidentiary matters, within the good sense and experience of the district judge guided by the standards we have outlined, 10 and subject to the appropriately limited review of appellate courts. 11
3. The statute itself provides no procedure for making a determination whether a particular statement comes within the terms of (e) and thus may be produced if related to the subject matter of the witness' testimony.  Ordinarily the defense demand will be only for those statements which satisfy the statutory limitations.  Thus the Government will not produce documents clearly beyond the reach of the statute for to do so would not be responsive to the order of the court. However, when it is doubtful whether the production of a particular statement is compelled by the statute, we approve the practice of having the Government submit the statement to the trial judge for an in camera determination.  Indeed, any other procedure would be destructive of the statutory purpose.  The statute governs the production of documents; it does not purport to affect or modify the rules of evidence regarding admissibility and use of statements once produced.  The Act's major concern is with limiting and regulating defense access to government papers, and it is designed to deny such access to those statements which do not satisfy the requirements of (e), or do not relate to the subject matter of the witness' testimony.  It would indeed defeat this design to hold that the defense may see statements in order to argue whether it should be allowed to see them.
It is also the function of the trial judge to decide, in light of the circumstances of each case, what, if any, evidence   extrinsic to the statement itself may or must be offered to prove the nature of the statement.  In most cases the answer will be plain from the statement itself.  In others further information might be deemed relevant to assist the court's determination.  This is a problem of the sound and fair administration of a criminal prosecution and its solution must be guided by the need, reflected in so much of our law of evidence, to avoid needless trial of collateral and confusing issues while assuring the utmost fairness to a criminal defendant. See, e. g.,  Nardone v. United States, 308 U.S. 338, 342.
In light of these principles the case before us is clear. Both the District Court and the Court of Appeals correctly held that the sole standard governing production of the agent's memorandum of his conference with Sanfilippo was 18 U. S. C. ยง 3500. The district judge and a unanimous Court of Appeals held that the statement was not within the definition of statement in (e) as properly understood by them.  We have examined the statement and the record and find that the determination of the two courts below was justified and therefore must be sustained. 12 It would bespeak a serious reflection on the conscience and capacity of the federal judiciary if both a trial judge and a Court of Appeals were found to have disregarded the command of Congress, duly interpreted, for making available a prior statement of a government witness in a case.  Against such a contingency there is always the safeguard of this Court's reviewing power.
Affirmed.
APPENDIX A TO OPINION OF THE COURT.
