OPINION
MR. JUSTICE WHITTAKER delivered the opinion of the Court.
The ultimate question presented by these cases is whether certain lands, purchased and owned in fee simple by the Tuscarora Indian Nation and lying adjacent to a natural power site on the Niagara River near the town of Lewiston, New York, may be taken for the storage reservoir of a hydroelectric power project, upon the payment of just compensation, by the Power Authority of the State of New York under a license issued to it by the Federal Power Commission as directed by Congress in Public Law 85-159, approved August 21, 1957, 71 Stat. 401.
The Niagara River, an international boundary stream and a navigable waterway of the United States, flows from Lake Erie to Lake Ontario, a distance of 36 miles. Its mean flow is about 200,000 cubic feet per second.  The river drops about 165 feet at Niagara Falls and an additional 140 feet in the rapids immediately above and below the falls.  The "head" created by these great falls, combined with the large and steady flow of the river, makes the Lewiston power site, located below the rapids, an extremely favorable one for hydroelectric development.
For the purpose of avoiding "continuing waste of a great natural resource and to make it possible for the United States of America and Canada to develop, for the benefit of their respective peoples, equal shares of the waters of the Niagara River available for power purposes," the United States and Canada entered into the Treaty of February 27, 1950, 1 providing for a flow of 100,000 cubic feet per second over Niagara Falls during certain specified daytime and evening hours of the tourist season (April 1 to October 31) and of 50,000 cubic feet per second at other times, and authorizing the equal division by the United States and Canada of all excess waters for power purposes. 2
In consenting to the 1950 Treaty, the Senate imposed the condition that "no   project for redevelopment of the United States' share of such waters shall be undertaken until it be specifically authorized by Act of Congress."  1 U. S. T. 694, 699. To that end, a study was made and reported to Congress in 1951 by the United States Army Corps of Engineers respecting the most feasible plans for utilizing all of the waters available to the United States under the 1950 Treaty, and detailed plans embodying other studies were prepared and submitted to Congress prior to June 7, 1956, by the Bureau of Power of the Federal Power Commission, the Power Authority of New York, and the Niagara Mohawk Power Corporation. 3 To enable utilization of all of the United States' share of the Niagara waters by avoiding waste of the nighttime and week-end flow that would not be needed at those times for the generation of power, all of the studies and plans provided for a pumping-generating plant to lift those waters at those times into a reservoir, and for a storage reservoir to contain them until released for use -- through the pumping-generating plant, when its motors (operating in reverse)  would serve as generators -- during the daytime hours when the demand for power would be highest and the diversion of waters from the river would be most restricted by the treaty. Estimates of dependable capacity of the several recommended projects varied from 1,240,000 to 1,723,000 kilowatts, and estimates of the needed reservoir capacity varied from 22,000 acre-feet covering 850 acres to 41,000 acre-feet covering 1,700 acres. The variations in these estimates were largely due to differing assumptions as to the length of the daily period of peak demand.
Although there was "no controversy as to the most desirable engineering plan of development," 4 there was serious disagreement in Congress over whether the project should be publicly or privately developed and over marketing preferences and other matters of policy.  That disagreement continued through eight sessions of Committee Hearings, during which more than 30 proposed bills were considered, in the Eighty-first to Eighty-fifth Congresses, 5 and delayed congressional   authorization of the project for seven years.
On June 7, 1956, a rock slide destroyed the Schoellkopf plant. 6 This created a critical shortage of electric power in the Niagara community.  It also required expansion of the plans for the Niagara project if the 20,000 cubic feet per second of water that had been reserved for the Schoellkopf plant was to be utilized.  Accordingly, the Power Authority of New York prepared and submitted to Congress a major revision of the project plans.  Those revised plans, designed to utilize all of the Niagara waters available to the United States under the 1950 Treaty, provided for an installed capacity of 2,190,000 kilowatts, of which 1,800,000 kilowatts would be dependable power for 17 hours per day, necessitating a storage reservoir of 60,000 acre-feet capacity covering about 2,800 acres. 7
Confronted with the destruction of the Schoellkopf plant and the consequent critical need for electric power in the Niagara community, Congress speedily composed its differences in the manner and terms prescribed in Public Law 85-159, approved August 21, 1957.  71 Stat. 401.  By § 1 (a) of that Act, Congress "expressly authorized and directed" the Federal Power Commission "to issue a license to the Power Authority of the State of New York for the construction and operation of a power project with capacity to utilize all of the United States share of the water of the Niagara River permitted to be used by international agreement." By § 1 (b) of the Act, the Federal Power Commission was directed to "include among the licensing conditions, in addition to those deemed necessary and required under the terms of the Federal Power Act," seven conditions which are of only collateral importance here. 8 The concluding section of the Act, § 2, provides: "The license issued under the terms of this Act shall be granted in conformance with Rules of Practice and Procedure of the Federal Power Commission, but in the event of any conflict, the provisions of this Act shall govern in respect of the project herein authorized."
Thereafter, the Power Authority of the State of New York, a municipal corporation created under the laws of that State to develop the St. Lawrence and Niagara power projects, applied to the Federal Power Commission for the project license which Congress had thus directed the Commission to issue to it.  Its application embraced the project plans that it had submitted to the Eighty-fifth Congress shortly before its approval of Public Law 85-159. 9 The project was scheduled to be completed in 1963 at an estimated cost of $ 720,000,000.
Hearings were scheduled by the Commission, of which due notice was given to all interested parties, including the Tuscarora Indian Nation, inasmuch as the application contemplated the taking of some of its lands for the reservoir. The Tuscarora Indian Nation intervened and objected to the taking of any of its lands upon the ground "that the applicant lacks authority to acquire them." At the hearings, it was shown that the Tuscarora lands needed for the reservoir -- then thought to be about 1,000 acres -- are part of a separate tract of 4,329 acres purchased in fee simple by the Tuscarora Indian Nation, with the assistance of Henry Dearborn, then Secretary of War, from the Holland Land Company on November 21, 1804, with the proceeds derived from the contemporaneous sale of their lands in North Carolina -- from which they had removed in about the year 1775 to reside with the Oneidas in central New York. 10
After concluding the hearings, the Commission, on January 30, 1958, issued its order granting the license. It found that a reservoir having a usable storage capacity of 60,000 acre-feet "is required to properly utilize the water resources involved." Although the Commission found that the Indian lands "are almost entirely undeveloped except for agricultural use," it did not pass upon the Tuscaroras' objection to the taking of their lands because it then assumed that "other lands are available for reservoir use if the Applicant is unable to acquire the Indian lands." But the Commission did direct the licensee to revise its exhibit covering the reservoir, to more definitely show the area and acreage involved, and to resubmit it to the Commission for approval within a stated time.
In its application for rehearing, the Tuscarora Indian Nation contended, among other things, that the portion of its lands sought to be taken for the reservoir was part of a "reservation," as defined in § 3 (2), and as used in § 4 (e), of the Federal Power Act, 11 and therefore could not lawfully be taken for reservoir purposes in the absence of a finding by the Commission "that the license will not interfere or be inconsistent with the purpose for which such reservation was created or acquired." By its order of March 21, 1958, denying that application for rehearing, the Commission found that "the best location of the reservoir would require approximately 1,000 acres of land owned by Intervener," and it held that the Indian lands involved "are not part of a 'reservation' referred to in Section 4 (e) as defined in Section 3 (2) of the  Act and the finding suggested by Intervener is not required." On May 5, 1958, the Commission issued its order approving the licensee's revised exhibit which precisely delineated the location, area, and acreage to be embraced by the reservoir -- which included 1,383 acres of the Tuscaroras' lands.
On May 16, 1958, the Tuscarora Indian Nation filed a petition for review in the Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit challenging the license issued by the Commission on January 30, 1958, insofar as it would authorize the taking of Tuscarora lands. 12 By its opinion and interim judgment of November 14, 1958, the Court of Appeals held that the Tuscarora lands sought to be taken for the reservoir constitute a part of a "reservation" within the meaning of §§ 3 (2) and 4 (e) of the Federal Power Act, and that the Commission may not include those lands in the license in the absence of a § 4 (e) finding that their taking "will not interfere or be inconsistent with the purpose for which such reservation was created or acquired," and the court remanded the case to the Commission that it might "explore the possibility of making that finding."  105 U. S. App. D. C. 146, 265 F.2d 338.
Upon remand, the Commission held extensive hearings, exploring not only the matter of the making of the finding held necessary by the Court of Appeals but also the possibility of locating the reservoir on other lands.  In its order of February 2, 1959, the Commission found that the use of other lands for the reservoir would result in great delay, severe community disruption, and unreasonable expense; that a reservoir with usable storage capacity of 60,000 acre-feet is required to utilize all of the United States' share of the water of the Niagara River, as required by Public Law 85-159; that removal of the reservoir from the Tuscarora lands by reducing the area of the reservoir would reduce the usable storage capacity from 60,000 acre-feet to 30,000 acre-feet and result in a loss of about 300,000 kilowatts of dependable capacity.  But it concluded that, although other lands contiguous to their reservation might be acquired by the Tuscaroras, 13 the taking of the 1,383 acres of Tuscarora lands for the reservoir "would interfere and would be inconsistent with the purpose for which the reservation was created or acquired."   That order was transmitted to the Court of Appeals which, on March 24, 1959, after considering various motions of the parties, entered its final judgment approving the license except insofar as it would authorize the taking of Tuscarora lands for the reservoir, and remanded the case to the Commission with instructions to amend the license "to exclude specifically the power of the said Power Authority to condemn the said lands of the Tuscarora Indians for reservoir purposes."  105 U. S. App. D. C., at 152, 265 F.2d, at 344.
Because of conflict between the views of the court below and those of the Second Circuit, and of the general importance of the questions involved, we granted certiorari.   360 U.S. 915.
The parties have urged upon us a number of contentions, but we think these cases turn upon the answers to two questions, namely, (1) whether the Tuscarora lands covered by the Commission's license are part of a "reservation" as defined and used in the Federal Power Act, 16 U. S. C. § 791a et seq., and, if not, (2) whether those lands may be condemned by the licensee, under the eminent domain powers conferred by § 21 of the Federal Power Act, 16 U. S. C. § 814. We now turn to a consideration of those questions in the order stated.
I.
A Commission finding that "the license will not interfere or be inconsistent with the purpose for which such reservation was created or acquired" is required by § 4 (e) of the Federal Power Act, 16 U. S. C. § 797 (e), only if the lands involved are within a "reservation" in the sense of that term as defined and used in that Act.  That by generally accepted standards and common understanding these Tuscarora lands may be part of a "reservation"  is not at all decisive of whether they are such within the meaning of the Federal Power Act. Congress was free and competent artificially to define the term "reservations" for the purposes it prescribed in that Act. And we are bound to give effect to its definition of that term, for it would be idle for Congress to define the sense in which it used it "if we were free in despite of it to choose a meaning for ourselves."  Fox v. Standard Oil Co., 294 U.S. 87, 96.  By § 3 (2) of the Federal Power Act, 16 U. S. C. § 796 (2), Congress has provided:
"SEC. 3.  The words defined in this section shall have the following meanings for purposes of this Act, to wit:
. . . .
"(2) 'reservations' means national forests, tribal lands embraced within Indian reservations, military reservations, and other lands and interests in lands owned by the United States, and withdrawn, reserved, or withheld from private appropriation and disposal under the public land laws; also lands and interests in lands acquired and held for any public purpose; but shall not include national monuments or national parks." (Emphasis added.)
The plain words of this definition seem rather clearly to show that Congress intended the term "reservations," wherever used in the Act, to embrace only "lands and interests in lands owned by the United States."
Turning to the definition's legislative history, we find that it, too, strongly indicates that such was the congressional intention.  In the original draft bill of the Federal Water Power Act of 1920, as proposed by the Administration and passed by the House in the Sixty-fifth and Sixty-sixth Congresses, the term was defined as follows:
"'Reservations' means lands and interest in lands owned by the United States and withdrawn, reserved, or withheld from private appropriation and disposal under the public-land laws, and lands and interest in lands acquired and held for any public purpose." 14
It is difficult to perceive how congressional intention could be more clearly and definitely expressed.  However, after the bill reached the Senate it inserted the words "national monuments, national parks, national forests, tribal lands embraced within Indian reservations, military reservations, and other" (emphasis added) at the beginning of the definition. 15 When the bill was returned to the House it was explained that the Senate's "amendment recasts the House definition of 'reservations.'" 16 The bill as enacted contained the definition as thus recast.  It remains in that form, except for the deletion of the words "national monuments, national parks," which was occasioned by the Act of March 3, 1921 (41 Stat. 1353), negating Commission authority to license any project works within "national monuments or national parks," and those words were finally deleted from the definition by amendment in 1935.  49 Stat. 838. It seems entirely clear that no change in substance was intended or effected by the Senate's amendment, and that its "recasting" only specified, as illustrative, some of the "reservations" on "lands and interests in lands owned by the United States."
Further evidence that Congress intended to limit "reservations," for the "purposes of this Act" (§ 3), to those   located on "lands owned by the United States" or in which it owns an interest is furnished by its use of the term in the context of § 4 (e) of the Act.  By that section Congress, after authorizing the Commission to license projects   in streams or other bodies of water over which it has jurisdiction under the Commerce Clause of the Constitution (Art. I, § 8, cl. 3), authorized the Commission to license projects "upon any part of the public lands and reservations of the United States." Congress must be deemed to have known, as this Court held in  Federal Power Comm'n v. Oregon, 349 U.S. 435, 443, that the licensing power, "in relation to public lands and reservations of the United States springs from the Property Clause" of the Constitution -- namely, the ". . . Power to dispose of and make all needful Rules and Regulations respecting the Territory or other Property belonging to the United States . . . ." Art. IV, § 3, cl. 2.  In thus acting under the Property Clause of the Constitution, Congress must have intended to deal only with  "the Territory or other Property belonging to the United States." Ibid.
Moreover, the Federal Power Act's plan of compensating for lands taken or used for licensed projects is explicable only if the term "reservations" is confined, as Congress evidently intended, to those located on "lands owned by the United States" or in which it owns a proprietary interest.  By § 21, 16 U. S. C. § 814, licensees are authorized to acquire "the lands or property of others necessary to the" licensed project "by the exercise of the right of eminent domain" in the federal or state courts, and, of course, upon the payment of just compensation.  But, despite its general and all-inclusive terms, § 21 does not apply to nor authorize condemnation of lands or interests in lands owned by the United States, because § 10 (e) of the Act, 16 U. S. C. § 803 (e), expressly provides that "the licensee shall pay to the United States reasonable annual charges . . . for recompensating it for   the use, occupancy, and enjoyment of its lands or other property" (emphasis added) devoted to the licensed project.  It therefore appears to be unmistakably clear that by the language of  the first proviso of that section saying, in pertinent part, "That when licenses are issued involving the use of Government dams or other structures owned by the United States or tribal lands embraced within Indian reservations (these italicized words being lifted straight from the § 3 (2) definition of 'reservations') the Commission shall . . . fix a reasonable annual charge for the use thereof . . . ," Congress intended to treat and treated only with structures, lands and interests in lands owned by the United States, for, as stated, the section expressly requires the "reasonable annual charges" to be paid to the United States for the use, occupancy, and enjoyment of "its lands or other property." (Emphasis added.)
This analysis of the plain words and legislative history of the Act's definition of "reservations" and of the plan and provisions of the Act leaves us with no doubt that   Congress, "for purposes of this Act" (§ 3 (2)), intended to and did confine "reservations," including "tribal lands embraced within Indian reservations" (§ 3 (2)), to those located on lands "owned by the United States" (§ 3 (2)), or in which it owns a proprietary interest.
The Court of Appeals did not find to the contrary.  Indeed, it found that the Act's definition of "reservations" includes only those located on lands in which the United States "has an interest." But it thought that the national paternal relationship to the Indians and the Government's concern to protect them against improper alienation of their lands gave the United States the requisite "interest" in the lands here involved, and that the result "must be the same as if the phrase 'owned by the United States, ' were not construed as a limitation upon the term 'tribal lands .'" 105 U. S. App. D. C., at 150, 265 F.2d, at 342. We do not agree.  The national "interest" in Indian welfare and protection "is not to be expressed in terms of property . . . ."  Heckman v. United States, 224 U.S. 413, 437. The national "paternal interest" in the welfare and protection of Indians is not the "interests in lands owned by the United States" required, as an element of "reservations," by § 3 (2) of the Federal Power Act. (Emphasis added.)
Inasmuch as the lands involved are owned in fee simple by the Tuscarora Indian Nation and no "interest" in them is "owned by the United States," we hold that they are not within a "reservation" as that term is defined and used in the Federal Power Act, and that a Commission finding under § 4 (e) of that Act "that the license will not interfere or be inconsistent with the purpose for which such reservation was created or acquired" is not necessary to the issuance of a license embracing the Tuscarora lands needed for the project.
II.
We pass now to the question whether the portion of the Tuscarora lands here involved may be condemned by the licensee under the provisions and eminent domain powers of § 21 of the Federal Power Act. Petitioners contend that § 21 is a broad general statute authorizing condemnation of "the lands or property of others necessary to the construction, maintenance, or operation of any" licensed project, and that lands owned by Indians in fee simple, not being excluded, may be taken by the licensee under the federal eminent domain powers delegated to it by that section.  Parrying this contention, the Tuscarora Indian Nation argues that § 21, being only a general Act of Congress, does not apply to Indians or their lands.
The Tuscarora Indian Nation heavily relies upon  Elk v. Wilkins, 112 U.S. 94. It is true that in that case the Court, dealing with the question whether a native-born American Indian was made a citizen of the United States by the Fourteenth Amendment of the Constitution, said: "Under the Constitution of the United States, as originally established . . . General Acts of Congress did not apply to Indians, unless so expressed as to clearly manifest an intention to include them."  112 U.S., at 99-100. However that may have been, it is now well settled by many decisions of this Court that   a general statute in terms applying to all persons includes Indians and their property interests.  In  Superintendent of Five Civilized Tribes v. Commissioner , 295 U.S. 418, the funds of a restricted Creek Indian were held and invested for him by the Superintendent, and a question arose as to whether income from the investment was subject to federal income taxes.  In an earlier case, Blackbird v. Commissioner, 38 F.2d 976, the Tenth Circuit had held such income to be exempt from federal income taxation.  But in this case the  Board of Tax Appeals sustained the tax, the Tenth Circuit affirmed, and the Superintendent brought the case here.  This Court observed that in the Blackbird case the Tenth Circuit had said that to hold a general act of Congress to be applicable to restricted Indians "would be contrary to the almost unbroken policy of Congress in dealing with its Indian wards and their affairs.  Whenever they and their interests have been the subject affected by legislation they have been named and their interests specifically dealt with." That is precisely the argument now made here by the Tuscarora Indian Nation.  But this Court, in affirming the judgment, said:
"This does not harmonize with what we said in  Choteau v. Burnet (1931), 283 U.S. 691, 693, 696:
"'The language of  subjects the income of "every individual" to tax.  Section 213 (a) includes income "from any   source whatever." The intent of Congress was to levy the tax with respect to all residents of the United States and upon all sorts of income.  The Act does not expressly exempt the sort of income here involved, nor a person having petitioner's status respecting such income, and we are not referred to any other statute which does. . . .  The intent to exclude must be definitely expressed, where, as here, the language of the Act laying the tax is broad enough to include the subject matter.'
"The court below properly declined to follow its quoted pronouncement in Blackbird's case.  The terms of the 1928 Revenue Act are very broad, and nothing there indicates that Indians are to be excepted.  See  Irwin v. Gavit, 268 U.S. 161;  Heiner v. Colonial Trust Co., 275 U.S. 232;  Helvering v. Stockholms Enskilda Bank, 293 U.S. 84;  Pitman v. Commissioner, 64 F. (2d) 740. The purpose is sufficiently clear."  295 U.S., at 419-420.
In  Oklahoma Tax Comm'n v. United States, 319 U.S. 598, this Court, in holding that the estate of a restricted Oklahoma Indian was subject to state inheritance and estate taxes under general state statutes, said:
"The language of the statutes does not except either Indians or any other persons from their scope. If Congress intends to prevent the State of Oklahoma from levying a general nondiscriminatory estate tax applying alike to all its citizens, it should say so in plain words.  Such a conclusion cannot rest on dubious inferences."  319 U.S., at 607.
See, e. g.,  Shaw v. Gibson-Zahniser Oil Corporation, 276 U.S. 575, 581-582; United States v. Ransom, 263 U.S. 691;  Kennedy v. Becker, 241 U.S.  556, 563-564;  Choate v. Trapp, 224 U.S. 665, 673.
The Federal Power Act constitutes a complete and comprehensive plan for the development and improvement of navigation and for the development, transmission and utilization of electric power in any of the streams or other bodies of water over which Congress has jurisdiction under its commerce powers, and upon the public lands and reservations of the United States under its property powers. See § 4 (e).  It neither overlooks nor excludes Indians or lands owned or occupied by them.  Instead, as has been shown, the Act specifically defines and treats with lands occupied by Indians -- "tribal lands embraced within Indian reservations." See §§ 3 (2) and 10 (e).  The Act gives every indication that, within its comprehensive plan, Congress intended to include lands owned or occupied by any person or persons, including Indians.  The Court of Appeals recognized that this is so.   105 U. S. App. D. C., at 151, 265 F.2d, at 343. Section 21 of the Act, by broad general terms, authorizes the licensee to condemn "the lands or property of others necessary to the construction, maintenance, or operation of any" licensed project.  That section does not exclude lands or property owned by Indians, and, upon the authority of the cases cited, we must hold that it applies to these lands owned in fee simple by the Tuscarora Indian Nation.
The Tuscarora Indian Nation insists that even if its lands are embraced by the terms of § 21 of the Federal Power Act, they still may not be taken for public use "without the express consent of Congress referring specifically to those lands," because of the provisions of   25 U. S. C. § 177. 17 That section, in pertinent part, provides:
"No purchase, grant, lease, or other conveyance of lands, or of any title or claim thereto, from any Indian nation or tribe of Indians,  shall be of any validity in law or equity, unless the same be made by treaty or convention entered into pursuant to the Constitution. . . ."
The obvious purpose of that statute is to prevent unfair, improvident or improper disposition by Indians of lands owned or possessed by them to other parties, except the United States, without the consent of Congress, and to enable the Government, acting as parens patriae for the Indians, to vacate any disposition of their lands made without its consent. See, e. g.,  United States v. Hellard, 322 U.S. 363; United States v. Candelaria , 271 U.S. 432, 441-442; Henkel v. United States, 237 U.S. 43, 51; United States v. Sandoval, 231 U.S. 28, 46-48. But there is no such requirement with respect to conveyances to or condemnations by the United States or its licensees; "nor is it conceivable that it is necessary, for the Indians are subject only to the same rule of law as are others in the State . . . ."  United States v. Oklahoma Gas Co., 318 U.S. 206, 211.
As to the Tuscaroras' contention that § 177 prohibits the taking of any of their lands for the reservoir "without the express and specific consent of Congress," one thing is certain.  It is certain that if § 177 is applicable to alienations effected by condemnation proceedings under § 21 of the Federal Power Act, the mere "expressed consent" of Congress would be vain and idle.  For § 177 at the very least contemplates the assent of the Indian nation or tribe.  And inasmuch as the Tuscarora Indian Nation withholds such consent and refuses to convey to the licensee any of its lands, it follows that the mere consent of Congress, however express and specific, would avail nothing.  Therefore, if § 177 is  applicable to alienations effected by condemnation under § 21 of the Federal Power Act, the result would be that the Tuscarora lands, however imperative for the project, could not be taken at all.
But § 177 is not applicable to the sovereign United States nor, hence, to its licensees to whom Congress has delegated federal eminent domain powers under § 21 of the Federal Power Act. The law is now well settled that:
"
A general statute imposing restrictions does not impose them upon the Government itself without a clear expression or implication to that effect."  United States v. Wittek, 337 U.S. 346, 358-359.
In  United States v. United Mine Workers of America, 330 U.S. 258, 272-273, the Court said:
"
There is an old and well-known rule that   statutes which in general terms divest pre-existing rights or privileges will not be applied to the sovereign without express words to that effect."
See, e. g.,  Leiter Minerals, Inc., v. United States, 352 U.S. 220, 224-225; United States v. Wyoming, 331 U.S. 440, 449;  United States v. Stevenson, 215 U.S. 190;   United States v. American Bell Telephone Co., 159 U.S. 548, 553-555;  Lewis v. United States, 92 U.S. 618, 622;  United States v. Herron, 20 Wall. 251, 263;  Dollar Savings Bank v. United States, 19 Wall. 227, 239.
This Court has several times applied, in combination, the rules (1) that   general Acts of Congress apply to Indians as well as to all others in the absence of a clear expression to the contrary, and (2) that general statutes imposing restrictions do not apply to the Government itself without a clear expression to that effect.  It did so in  Henkel v. United States, 237 U.S. 43 (sustaining the right of the United States to take Indian lands for reservoir purposes under the general Reclamation Act of June 17, 1902, 32 Stat. 388), in Spalding v. Chandler, 160 U.S. 394 (sustaining the power of the Government to convey a strip of land through a tract owned by an Indian tribe to one Chandler for the use of the State of Michigan in constructing a canal, even though the conveyance was in derogation of a treaty with the Indian tribe),  and in  Cherokee Nation v. Southern Kansas R. Co., 135 U.S. 641. There, this Court sustained the right of a licensee of the Government to take so much of the undescribed fee lands of an Indian tribe as was necessary for the licensed project, though in derogation of the terms of a treaty between the United States and the Indian tribe, 18 saying:
"It would be very strange if the national government, in the execution of its rightful authority, could exercise the power of eminent domain in the several States, and could not exercise the same power in a Territory occupied by an Indian nation or tribe, the members of which were wards of the United States, and directly subject to its political control.  The lands in the Cherokee territory, like the lands held by private owners everywhere within the geographical limits of the United States, are held subject to the authority of the general government to take them for such objects as are germane to the execution of the powers granted to it; provided only, that they are not taken without just compensation being made to the owner."  135 U.S., at 656-657.
See also  Lone Wolf v. Hitchcock, 187 U.S. 553, 565; Missouri, Kansas & Texas R. Co. v.  Roberts, 152 U.S. 114, 117-118;  Beecher v. Wetherby, 95 U.S. 517;  Kohl v. United States, 91 U.S. 367.
In the light of these authorities we must hold that   Congress, by the broad general terms of § 21 of the Federal Power Act, has authorized the Federal Power Commission's licensees to take lands owned by Indians, as well as those of all other citizens, when needed for a licensed project, upon the payment of just compensation; that the lands in question are not subject to any treaty between the United States and the Tuscaroras (see notes 10 and 18); and that   25 U. S. C. § 177 does not apply to the United States itself nor prohibit it, or its licensees under the Federal Power Act, from taking such lands in the manner provided by § 21, upon the payment of just compensation.
All members of this Court -- no one more than any other -- adhere to the concept that agreements are made to be performed -- no less by the Government than by others -- but   the federal eminent domain powers conferred by Congress upon the Commission's licensee, by § 21 of the Federal Power Act, to take such of the lands of the Tuscaroras as are needed for the Niagara project do not breach the faith of the United States, or any treaty or other contractual agreement of the United States  with the Tuscarora Indian Nation in respect to these lands for the conclusive reason that there is none.
Reversed.
<concur author="BRENNAN" text="NOTEXT">
MR. JUSTICE BRENNAN concurs in the result.
<dissent author="BLACK" text="TRUE">
DISSENT BY: BLACK
MR. JUSTICE BLACK, whom THE CHIEF JUSTICE and MR. JUSTICE DOUGLAS join, dissenting.
The Court holds that the Federal Power Act 1 authorizes the taking of 22% (1,383 acres) of the single tract which the Tuscarora Indian Nation has owned and occupied as its homeland for 150 years. 2 Admittedly this taking of so large a part of the lands will interfere with the purpose for which this Indian reservation was created -- a permanent home for the Tuscaroras.  I not only believe that the Federal Power Act does not authorize this taking, but that the Act positively prohibits it.  Moreover, I think the taking also violates the Nation's long-established policy of recognizing and preserving Indian reservations for tribal use, and that it constitutes a breach of Indian treaties recognized by Congress since at least 1794.
Whether the Federal Power Act permits this condemnation depends, in part, upon whether the Tuscarora Reservation is a "reservation" within the meaning of the Act.  For if it is, § 4 (e) forbids the taking of any part of the lands except after a finding by the Federal Power Commission that the taking "will not interfere or be inconsistent with the purpose for which such reservation was created or acquired . . . ." 3 There is no such finding here.  In fact, the Commission found that the inundation of so great a part of the Tuscarora Reservation by the waters of the proposed reservoir "will interfere and will be inconsistent with the purpose for which such reservation was created or acquired."  21 F. P. C. 146, 148. If these Tuscarora homelands are "tribal lands embraced within" an Indian reservation as used in § 3 (2) 4 they constitute a "reservation   " for purposes of § 4 (e), and therefore the taking here is unauthorized because the requisite finding could not be made.
I believe the plain meaning of the words used in the Act, taken alone, and their meaning in the light of the historical background against which they must be viewed, require the conclusion that these lands are a "reservation" entitled to the protections of § 4 (e) of the Act.  "Reservation," as used in § 4 (e), is defined by § 3 (2), which provides:
"'reservations' means national forests, tribal lands embraced within Indian reservations, military reservations, and other lands and interests in lands owned by the United States, and withdrawn, reserved, or withheld from private appropriation and disposal under the public land laws; also lands and interests in lands acquired and held for any public purposes; but shall not include national monuments or national parks . . . ." (Emphasis supplied.)
The phrase "tribal lands embraced within Indian reservations" surely includes these Tuscarora lands.  They are tribal lands.  They are embraced within the Tuscarora Indian Nation's reservation. The lands have been called a reservation for more than 150 years.  They have been so described in treaties, Acts of Congress, court decisions, Indian agency reports, books, articles, and maps.  In fact, so far as I can ascertain, they have never been called anything else, anywhere or at any time -- until today.  Even the Court of Appeals and the Federal Power Commission, and the briefs and record in this Court, quite naturally refer to this 10-square-mile tract of land as an Indian reservation. The Court itself seems to accept the fact that the Tuscarora Nation lives on a reservation according to (in its words) the "generally accepted standards and common understanding" of that term.
The Court, however, decides that in the Federal Power Act Congress departed from the meaning universally given the phrase "tribal lands embraced within Indian reservations" and defined the phrase, the Court says, "artificially." The Court believes that the words "other lands . . . owned by the United States," which follow, were intended by Congress to limit the phrase to include  only those reservations to which the United States has technical legal title.  By the Court's "artificial" interpretation, the phrase turns out to mean "tribal lands embraced within Indian reservations -- except when 'the lands involved are owned in fee simple by the .'" 5
Creating such a wholly artificial and limited definition, so new and disruptive, imposes a heavy burden of justification upon the one who asserts it.  We are told that many tribes own their reservation lands.  The well-known Pueblos of New Mexico own some 700,000 acres of land in fee.  All such reservation lands are put in jeopardy by the Court's strained interpretation.  The Court suggests no plausible reason, or any reason at all for that matter, why Congress should or would have sought artificially to place those Indians who hold legal title to their reservation lands in such a less-favored position. 6 The fact that the Tuscarora Nation holds technical legal title is fortuitous and an accidental circumstance probably attributable to the Indian land policy prevailing at the early date this reservation was established.  Their lands, like all other Indian tribal lands, can be sold, leased or subjected to easements only with the consent of the United States Government.  Congress and government agencies have always treated the Tuscarora Reservation the same as all others, 7 and there is no reason even to suspect that Congress wanted to treat it differently when it passed the Federal Power Act.
It is necessary to add no more than a word about the legislative history of this section which the Court relies on.  The Court points out that the House version of the 1920 Federal Water Power Act (now called the Federal Power Act) defined "reservations" as meaning only "lands and interests in lands owned by the United States." In this definition of "reservations" the Senate inserted new words which included the present phrase "tribal lands embraced within Indian reservations." If the only Indian lands Congress sought to cover by this section were those to which the United States had title, the Senate addition served no purpose.  For the House bill covered all "lands .  . . owned by the United States." The only reason for the Senate additions, it seems to me, was to cover lands, like those of the Tuscarora Nation here, title to which was not in the United States Government.
The Court also undertakes to support its "artificial" definition of "tribal lands embraced within Indian reservations" by saying that the Congress knew, by a prior decision of this Court, that it was acting under Art. IV, § 3, cl. 2, of the Constitution, which gives Congress power, as the Court says, "to deal only with 'the Territory or other Property belonging to the United States.'" In the first place I do not understand how the Court can say with such assurance that the Congress was acting only under that clause, as there is no evidence whatsoever that Congress expressed itself on this matter.  Moreover, it seems far more likely to me that in this phrase regulating Indian tribes Congress was acting under Art. I, § 8, cl. 3, which empowers Congress "To regulate Commerce with . . . the Indian Tribes."
Even accepting for a moment the Court's "artificial" definition, I think the United States owns a sufficient "interest" in these Tuscarora homelands to make them a "reservation" within the meaning of the Act.  Section 3 (2) does not merely require a finding in order to take "tribal lands embraced within Indian reservations"; the same finding is required in order to take "other . . . interests in lands owned by the United States" whether tribal or not.  Or, again accepting the Court's conception, if the phrase "tribal lands embraced within Indian reservations" must be modified by the words which follow, "lands . . . owned by the United States," it must also be modified by the words "interests in lands owned by the United States," which also follow.  Read this way, the   section defines "reservations" as tribal lands in which the United States owns "interests." Thus again a finding under § 4 (e) is required even under the Court's own technical approach if the United States owns "interests" in the lands.  I think it does.
Certainly the words Congress used, "interests in lands," are not surplusage; they have some meaning and were intended to accomplish some purpose of their own.  The United States undoubtedly controls (has "interests in") many lands in this country that it does not own in fee simple. This is surely true as to all Indian tribal lands, even though the Indians own the fee simple title. 8 Such lands cannot be sold or leased without the consent of the United States Government.  The Secretary of the Interior took this position about this very reservation in 1912 when the Tuscaroras desired to lease a part of their lands to private individuals for limestone quarrying. 9 And, of course, the long-accepted concept of a guardian-ward relationship between the United States and its Indians, with all the requirements of fair dealing and protection that this involves, means that the Indians are not free to treat their lands as wholly their own. 10 Anyone doubting the extent of ownership interest in these lands by the United States would have that doubt rapidly removed should he take a deed from the Tuscarora Nation without the consent of the Government. 11 I cannot agree, therefore, that this all but technical fee ownership which the United States has in these lands is inadequate to constitute the kind of "interests in lands owned by the United States" which requires a § 4 (e) finding before condemnation.
After the Court concludes that because of its interpretation of the definition of "reservations" in § 3 (2) a finding is not required by § 4 (e) to take the Tuscarora lands, it goes on to find the necessary congressional authorization to take these lands in the general condemnation provisions of § 21.  16 U. S. C. § 814. I believe that this is an incorrect interpretation of the general power to condemn under § 21, both because Congress specifically provided for the taking of all Indian reservation lands it wanted taken in other sections of the same Act, and because a taking under § 21 is contrary to the manner in which Congress has traditionally gone about the taking of Indian lands -- such as Congress here carefully prescribed in § 4 (e).  Congress has been consistent in generally exercising this power to take Indian lands only in accord with prior treaties, only when the Indians themselves consent to be moved, and only by Acts which either specifically refer to Indians or by their terms must include Indian lands.  None of these conditions is satisfied here if § 21 is to be relied upon.  The specific and detailed provisions of § 10 (e), 16 U. S. C. § 803 (e), upon which the Court relies, only emphasize to me the kind of care   Congress always takes to protect the just claims of Indians to reservations like this one.
The cases which the Court cites in its opinion do not justify the broad meaning read into § 21.  Many of those cases deal with taxation -- federal and state. The fact that Indians are sometimes taxed like other citizens does not even remotely indicate that Congress has weakened in any way its policy to preserve "tribal lands embraced within Indian reservations." Moreover, cases dealing with individuals who are not Indians are not applicable to tribal reservations. For example,  Shaw v. Gibson-Zahniser Oil Corp., 276 U.S. 575, cited by the Court, did not involve tribal lands.  That case only held that a State may tax the production of an oil company even though it was derived from oil company lands leased from an Indian.  The owner there was an individual Indian, not a tribe, and the lands were not and never had been a part of an Indian reservation, but rather had been purchased for this single Indian with the royalties he obtained from his own original restricted allotted lands.  In  Henkel v. United States, 237 U.S. 43,  which involved the taking of Indian lands for the vast western reclamation project, the Court not only found that it had been "well known to Congress" that Indian lands would have to be taken,  237 U.S., at 50, but the treaty with the Indians involved in that case contained a specific consent by the Indians to such a taking.  29 Stat. 356, quoted  237 U.S., at 48-49. There was no provision even resembling this in the Treaty of 1794 with the Tuscaroras.   Other cases relied on by the Court, such as  Spalding v. Chandler, 160 U.S. 394, and  Cherokee Nation v. Southern Kansas R. Co., 135 U.S. 641, all involved statutes that made it clear that Congress was well aware it was authorizing the taking of Indians' lands -- unlike the history of § 21 of the Federal Power Act and the 1957 Niagara Power Act, 71 Stat. 401, 16 U. S. C. §§ 836-836a, involved here.
All that I have said so far relates to what the Court calls the "plain words" of the statute.  I interpret these "plain words" differently than the Court.  But there are other more fundamental and decisive reasons why I disagree with the Court's interpretation of the Federal Power Act as it relates to Indians.  The provisions in § 4 (e) which protect Indian reservations against destruction by condemnation cannot be properly construed unless considered as a part of a body of Indian laws built up throughout this Nation's history, and extending back even to the Articles of Confederation.  It is necessary to summarize briefly a part of that history.
The experience of the Tuscarora Nation illustrates this history as well as that of any Indian tribe. 12 When this country was discovered the Tuscaroras lived and owned their homelands in the area that later became North Carolina.  Early settlers wanted their lands.  The Tuscaroras did not want to give them up.  Numerous conflicts arose because of this clash of desires. Finally, about 1710, there was a war between the Tuscaroras and the colonists in North and South Carolina.  The Indians were routed.  A majority of their warriors were killed.  Hundreds of their men, women and children were captured and sold into slavery.  Nearly all of the remainder of the tribe fled. They found a home in distant New York with the Iroquois Confederation of Nations.  With their acceptance into the Confederation about 1720 it became known as the Six Nations.  Historical accounts indicate that about 1780 those Tuscaroras who had supported America in the Revolution were compelled to leave their first residence in New York because of the hostility of Indians who had fought with the British against the Colonies. 13 They migrated to the Village of Lewiston, New York, near Niagara Falls and settled in that area as their new home.  They have remained there ever since -- nearly 180 years.  When their legal right to this land came into question about 1800 the Seneca Indians and the Holland Land Company both "thought their claim so just" 14 that they gave the Tuscarora Nation deeds to three square miles of the area they had been occupying for about 20 years.  With the assistance of Presidents Washington and Jefferson and the Congress, the Tuscaroras were able, through the Secretary of War, to sell their vast North Carolina lands for $ 15,000.  With this money, held by the Secretary of War as trustee, additional lands adjoining those received from the Seneca Indians and the Holland Land Company were obtained for the Tuscarora Nation and the title held  in trust by the Secretary of War from 1804 to 1809.  The Secretary supervised the payments to the Holland Land Company, from which the additional 4,329 acres were obtained, and when payments were completed he conveyed these lands to the Tuscarora Nation. 15 The 1,383 acres of the Tuscarora Reservation involved today is a part of this purchase.  Despite all this and the Government's continuing guardianship over these Indians and their lands throughout the years the Court attempts to justify this taking on the single ground that the Indians, not the United States Government, now own the fee simple title to this property.
In 1838 the Government made a treaty with the Tuscaroras under which they were to be removed to other parts of the United States. 16 The removal was to be   carried out under the authority of a Congressional Act of 1830, 4 Stat. 411, which provided a program for removing the Indians from the Eastern United States to the West.  Section 3 of that Act provided authority "for the President solemnly to assure the tribe or nation with which the exchange is made, that the United States will forever secure and guaranty to them, and their heirs or successors, the country so exchanged with them . . . ." The same Act also provided "That nothing in this act contained shall be construed as authorizing or directing the violation of any existing treaty between the United States and any of the Indian tribes." Id., § 7.
The Tuscarora Nation then had such a treaty with the United States,   which had been in existence since 1794 and is still recognized by Congress today. 17 The treaty was made with all the Six Nations, at a time when the Tuscarora Nation had been a member for over 70 years, and one of their representatives signed the treaty. 18 In Article III of the Treaty the United States Government made this solemn promise:
"   Now, the United States acknowledge all the land within the aforementioned boundaries, to be the property of the Seneka nation; and the United States will never claim the same, nor disturb the Seneka nation, nor any of the Six Nations, or of their Indian friends residing thereon and united with them, in the free use and enjoyment thereof: but it shall remain theirs, until they choose to sell the same to the people of the United States, who have the right to purchase."
This article of the 1794 Treaty substantially repeated the promise given the Tuscaroras in the prior 1784 Treaty, 7 Stat. 15, made before our Constitution was adopted, that "The Oneida and Tuscarora nations shall be secured in the possession of the lands on which they are settled."
Of course it is true that in 1794, when the Treaty was signed, the Tuscarora Nation did not yet have the technical legal title to that part of the reservation which the Government was later able to obtain for it.  But the solemn pledge of the United States to its wards is not to be construed like a money-lender's mortgage.  Up to this time it has always been the established rule that this Court would give treaties with the Indians an enlarged interpretation; one that would assure them beyond all doubt that this Government does not engage in sharp practices with its wards. 19 This very   principle of interpretation was applied in the case of  The New York Indians, 5 Wall. 761, 768, where the Court said, about this treaty:
"It has already been shown that the United States have acknowledged the reservations to be the property of the Seneca nation -- that they will never claim them nor disturb this nation in their free use and enjoyment, and that they shall remain theirs until they choose to sell them.  These are the guarantees given by the United States, and which her faith is pledged to uphold."
After the Treaty of 1838 was signed, in which the Tuscaroras agreed to go west, they decided not to do so, and the Government respected their objections and left them with their land.  They have, since that time, held it as other Indians have throughout the Nation.  This has been in accord with the settled general policy to preserve such reservations against any kind of taking,   whether by private citizens or government, that might result in depriving Indian tribes of their homelands against their will. 20 President Jackson, in 1835, explained the purpose of the removal and reservation program as   meaning that, "The pledge of the United States has been given by Congress that the country destined for the residence of this people shall be forever 'secured and guaranteed to them.'" 21 This policy was so well settled that when the Missouri compromise bill was being discussed in Congress in 1854 Texas Senator Sam Houston used this picturesque language to describe the Government's promise to the Indians:
"As long as water flows, or grass grows upon the earth, or the sun rises to show your pathway, or you kindle your camp fires, so long shall  you be protected by this Government, and never again removed from your present habitations." 22
It was to carry out these sacred promises made to protect the security of Indian reservations that Congress adopted § 4 (e) which forbids the taking of an Indian reservation for a power project if it will "interfere . . . with the purpose for which such reservation was created or acquired . . . ." But no such finding was made or could be made here.
There can be no doubt as to the importance of this power project.  It will be one of the largest in this country and probably will have cost over $ 700,000,000 when it is completed.  It is true that it will undoubtedly cost more to build a proper reservoir without the Tuscarora lands, and that there has already been some delay by reason of this controversy.  The use of lands other than those of the tribe will cause the abandonment of more homes and the removal of more people.  If the decision in this case depended exclusively upon cost and inconvenience, the Authority undoubtedly would have been justified in using the Tuscarora lands.  But the Federal Power Act requires far more than that to justify breaking up this Indian reservation.
These Indians have a way of life which this Government has seen fit to protect, if not actually to encourage.  Cogent arguments can be made that it would be better for all concerned if Indians were to abandon their old customs and habits, and become incorporated in the communities where they reside.  The fact remains, however, that they have not done this and that they have continued their tribal life with trust in a promise of security from this Government.
Of course, Congress has power to change this traditional policy when it sees fit.  But when such changes have been made Congress has ordinarily been scrupulously careful to see that new conditions leave the Indians satisfied. Until Congress has a chance to express itself far more clearly than it has here the Tuscaroras are entitled to keep their reservation. It would be far better to let the Power Authority present the matter to Congress and request its consent to take these lands.  It is not too late for it to do so now.  If, as has been argued here, Congress has already impliedly authorized the taking, there can be no reason why it would not pass a measure at once confirming its authorization. It has been known to pass a Joint Resolution in one day where this Court interpreted an Act in a way it did not like.  See  Commissioner v. Estate of Church, 335 U.S. 632, 639-640. Such action would simply put this   question of authorization back into the hands of the Legislative Department of the Government where the Constitution wisely reposed it. 23
It may be hard for us to understand why these Indians cling so tenaciously to their lands and traditional tribal way of life. 24 The record does not leave the impression that the lands of their reservation are the most fertile, the landscape the most beautiful or their homes the most splendid specimens of architecture.  But this is their home -- their ancestral home. There, they, their children, and their forebears were born.  They, too, have their memories and their loves.  Some things are worth more than money and the costs of a new enterprise.
There may be instances in which Congress has broken faith with the Indians, although examples of such action have not been pointed out to us.  Whether it has done so before now or not, however, I am not convinced that it has done so here.  I regret that this Court is to be the governmental agency that breaks faith with this dependent people.  Great nations, like great men, should keep their word.
XXX
