OPINION
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE WARREN delivered the opinion of the Court.
The question presented is whether a Federal District Court has jurisdiction under 28 U. S. C. § 1346 (a)(1) of a suit by a taxpayer for the refund of income tax payments which did not discharge the entire amount of his assessment.
This is our second consideration of the case.  In the 1957 Term, we decided that full payment of the assessment is a jurisdictional prerequisite to suit,  357 U.S. 63. Subsequently the Court granted a petition for rehearing.   360 U.S. 922 . The case has been exhaustively briefed and ably argued.  After giving the problem our most careful attention, we have concluded that our original disposition of the case was correct.
Under such circumstances, normally a brief epilogue to the prior opinion would be sufficient to account for our decision.  However, because petitioner in reargument has placed somewhat greater emphasis upon certain contentions than he had previously, and because our dissenting colleagues have elaborated upon the reasons for their disagreement, we deem it advisable to set forth our reasoning in some detail, even though this necessitates repeating much of what we have already said.
THE FACTS.
The relevant facts are undisputed and uncomplicated.  This litigation had its source in a dispute between petitioner and the Commissioner of Internal Revenue concerning the proper characterization of certain losses which petitioner suffered during 1950.  Petitioner reported them as ordinary losses, but the Commissioner treated them as capital losses and levied a deficiency assessment in the amount of $ 28,908.60, including interest.  Petitioner paid $ 5,058.54 and then filed with the Commissioner a claim for refund of that amount.  After the claim was disallowed, petitioner sued for refund in a District Court.  The Government moved to dismiss, and the judge decided that the petitioner "should not maintain" the action because he had not paid the full amount of the assessment.  But since there was a conflict among the Courts of Appeals on this jurisdictional question, and since the Tenth Circuit had not yet passed upon it, the judge believed it desirable to determine the merits of the claim.  He thereupon concluded that the losses were capital in nature and entered judgment in favor of the Government.   142 F.Supp. 602. The Court of Appeals for the Tenth Circuit agreed with the district judge upon the jurisdictional issue, and consequently remanded with directions to vacate the judgment and dismiss the complaint.   246 F.2d 929. We granted certiorari because the Courts of Appeals were in conflict with respect to a question which is of considerable importance in the administration of the tax laws. 1
THE STATUTE.
The question raised in this case has not only raised a conflict in the federal decisions, but has also in recent years provoked controversy among legal commentators. 2 In view of this divergence of expert opinion, it would be surprising if the words of the statute inexorably dictated but a single reasonable conclusion.  Nevertheless, one of the arguments which has been most strenuously urged is that the plain language of the statute precludes, or at the very least strongly militates against, a decision that full payment of the income tax assessment is a jurisdictional condition precedent to maintenance of a refund suit in a District Court.  If this were true, presumably we could but recite the statute and enter judgment for petitioner -- though we might be pardoned some perplexity as to how such a simple matter could have caused so much confusion.  Regrettably, this facile an approach will not serve.
Section 1346 (a)(1)   provides that the District Courts shall have jurisdiction, concurrent with the Court of Claims, of
"(1) Any civil action against the United States for the recovery of any internal-revenue tax alleged to have been erroneously or illegally assessed or collected, or any penalty claimed to have been collected without authority or any sum alleged to have been excessive or in any manner wrongfully collected under the internal-revenue laws . . . ." (Emphasis added.)
It is clear enough that the phrase "any internal-revenue tax" can readily be construed to refer to payment of the entire amount of an assessment.  Such an interpretation is suggested by the nature of the income tax, which is "A tax . . . imposed for each taxable year," with the "amount of the tax" determined in accordance with prescribed schedules. 3 (Emphasis added.) But it is argued that this reading of the statute is foreclosed by the presence in § 1346 (a)(1) of the phrase "any sum." This contention appears to be based upon the notion that "any sum" is a catchall which confers jurisdiction to adjudicate suits for refund of part of a tax.  A catchall the phrase surely is; but to say this is not to define what it catches.  The sweeping role which petitioner assigns these words is based upon a conjunctive reading of "any internal-revenue tax," "any penalty," and "any sum." But we believe that the statute more readily lends itself to the disjunctive reading which is suggested by the connective "or." That is, "any sum," instead of being related to "any internal-revenue tax" and "any penalty," may refer to amounts which are neither taxes nor penalties.  Under this interpretation, the function of the phrase is to permit suit for recovery of items which might not be designated as either "taxes" or "penalties" by Congress or the courts.  One obvious example of such a "sum" is interest.  And it is significant that many old tax statutes described the amount which was to be assessed under certain circumstances as a "sum" to be added to the tax, simply as a "sum," as a "percentum,  " or as "costs." 4 Such a rendition of the statute, which is supported by precedent, 5 frees the phrase "any internal-revenue tax" from the qualifications imposed upon it by petitioner and permits it to be given what we regard as its more natural reading -- the full tax.  Moreover, this construction, under which each phrase is assigned a distinct meaning, imputes to Congress a surer grammatical touch than does the alternative interpretation, under which the "any sum" phrase completely assimilates the other two.  Surely a much clearer statute could have been written to authorize suits for refund of any part of a tax merely by use of the phrase "a tax or any portion thereof," or simply "any sum paid under the internal revenue laws."  This Court naturally does not review congressional enactments as a panel of grammarians; but neither do we regard ordinary principles of English prose as irrelevant to a construction of those enactments.  Cf.   Commissioner v. Acker, 361 U.S. 87.
We conclude that the language of § 1346 (a)(1) can be more readily construed to require payment of the full tax before suit than to permit suit for recovery of a part payment. But, as we recognized in the prior opinion, the statutory language is not absolutely controlling, and consequently resort must be had to whatever other materials might be relevant. 6
LEGISLATIVE HISTORY AND HISTORICAL BACKGROUND.
Although frequently the legislative history of a statute is the most fruitful source of instruction as to its proper interpretation, in this case that history is barren of any clue to congressional intent.
The precursor of § 1346 (a)(1) was § 1310 (c) of the Revenue Act of 1921, 7 in which the language with which we are here concerned appeared for the first time in a jurisdictional statute.  Section 1310 (c) had an overt purpose unrelated to the question whether full payment of an assessed tax was a jurisdictional prerequisite to a suit for refund. Prior to 1921, tax refund suits against the United States could be maintained in the District Courts under the authority of the Tucker Act, which had been passed in 1887. 8 Where the claim exceeded $ 10,000, however, such a suit could not be brought, and in such a situation the taxpayer's remedy in District Court was against the Collector. But because the Collector had to be sued personally, no District Court action was available if he was deceased. 9 The 1921 provision, which was an amendment to the Tucker Act, was explicitly designed to permit taxpayers to sue the United States in the District Courts for sums exceeding $ 10,000 where the Collector had died. 10
The ancestry of the language of § 1346 (a)(1) is no more enlightening than is the legislative history of the 1921 provision.  This language,  which, as we have stated, appeared in substantially its present form in the 1921 amendment, was apparently taken from R. S. § 3226 (1878).  But § 3226 was not a jurisdictional statute at all; it simply specified that suits for recovery of taxes, penalties, or sums could not be maintained until after a claim for refund had been submitted to the Commissioner. 11
Thus there is presented a vexing situation -- statutory language which is inconclusive and legislative history which is irrelevant.  This, of course, does not necessarily mean that § 1346 (a)(1) expresses no congressional intent with respect to the issue before the Court; but it does make that intent uncommonly difficult to divine.
It is argued, however, that the puzzle may be solved through consideration of the historical basis of a suit to recover a tax illegally assessed. The argument proceeds as follows: A suit to recover taxes could, before the Tucker   Act, be brought only against the Collector. Such a suit was based upon the common-law count of assumpsit for money had and received, and the nature of that count requires the inference that a suit for recovery of part payment of a tax could have been maintained.  Neither the Tucker Act nor the 1921 amendment indicates an intent to change the nature of the refund action in any pertinent   respect.  Consequently, there is no warrant for importing into § 1346 (a)(1) a full-payment requirement.
For reasons which will appear later, we believe that the conclusion would not follow even if the premises were clearly sound.  But in addition we have substantial doubt about the validity of the premises.  As we have already indicated, the language of the 1921 amendment does in fact tend to indicate a congressional purpose to require full payment as a jurisdictional prerequisite to suit for refund. Moreover, we are not satisfied that the suit against the Collector was identical to the common-law action of assumpsit for money had and received.  One difficulty is that, because of the Act of February 26, 1845, c. 22, 5 Stat. 727, which restored the right of action against the Collector after this Court had held that it had been implicitly eliminated by other legislation, 12 the Court no longer regarded the suit as a common-law action, but rather as a statutory remedy which "in its nature  a remedy against the Government." Curtis's Administratrix v. Fiedler, 2 Black 461, 479. On the other hand, it is true that none of the statutes relating to this type of suit clearly indicate a congressional intention to require full payment of the assessed tax before suit. 13 Nevertheless, the opinion of this Court in  Cheatham v. United States, 92 U.S. 85, prevents us from accepting the analogy between the statutory action against the Collector and the common-law count.  In this 1875 opinion, the Court described the remedies available to taxpayers as follows:
"So also, in the internal-revenue department, the statute which we have copied allows appeals from the assessor to the commissioner of internal revenue; and, if dissatisfied with his decision, on paying the tax the party can sue the collector; and, if the money was wrongfully exacted, the courts will give him relief by a judgment, which the United States pledges herself to pay.
. . . .
". . . While a free course of remonstrance and appeal is allowed within the departments before the money is finally exacted, the general government has wisely made the payment of the tax claimed, whether of customs or of internal revenue, a condition precedent to a resort to the courts by the party against whom the tax is assessed. . . .  If the compliance with this condition  requires the party aggrieved to pay the money, he must do it.  He cannot, after the decision is rendered against him, protract the time within which he can contest that decision in the courts by his own delay in paying the money.  It is essential to the honor and orderly conduct of the government that its taxes should be promptly paid, and drawbacks speedily adjusted; and the rule prescribed in this class of cases is neither arbitrary nor unreasonable. . . .
"The objecting party can take his appeal.  He can, if the decision is delayed beyond twelve months, rest his case on that decision; or he can pay the amount claimed, and commence his suit at any time within that period.  So, after the decision, he can pay at once, and commence suit within the six months . . . ."  92 U.S., at 88-89. (Emphasis added.)
Reargument has not changed our view that this language reflects an understanding that full payment of the tax was a prerequisite to suit.  Of course, as stated in our prior opinion, the Cheatham statement is dictum; but we reiterate that it appears to us to be "carefully considered dictum."  357 U.S., at 68. Equally important is the fact that the Court was construing the claim-for-refund statute from which, as amended, the language of § 1346 (a)(1) was presumably taken. 14 Thus it seems that in Cheatham the Supreme Court interpreted this language not only to specify which claims for refund must first be presented for administrative reconsideration, but also to constitute an additional qualification upon the statutory right to sue the Collector. It is true that the version of the provision involved in Cheatham contained only the phrase "any tax." But the phrases "any penalty" and "any sum" were added well before the decision in Cheatham; 15 the history of these amendments makes it quite clear that they were not designed to effect any change relevant to the Cheatham rule; 16 language in   opinions of this Court after Cheatham is consistent with the Cheatham statement; 17 and in any event, as we have indicated, we can see nothing in these additional words which would negate the full-payment requirement.
If this were all the material relevant to a construction of § 1346 (a)(1), determination of the issue at bar would be inordinately difficult. Favoring petitioner would be the theory that, in the early nineteenth century, a suit for recovery of part payment of an assessment could be maintained against the Collector, together with the absence of any conclusive evidence that Congress has ever intended to inaugurate a new rule; favoring respondent would be the Cheatham statement and the language of the 1921 statute.  There are, however, additional factors which are dispositive.
We are not here concerned with a single sentence in an isolated statute, but rather with a jurisdictional provision which is a keystone in a carefully articulated and quite complicated structure of tax laws.  From these related statutes, all of which were passed after 1921, it is apparent that Congress has several times acted upon the assumption that § 1346 (a)(1) requires full payment before suit.  Of course, if the clear purpose of Congress at any time had been to permit suit to recover a part payment, this subsequent legislation would have to be disregarded.  But, as we have stated, the evidence pertaining to this intent is extremely weak, and we are convinced that it is entirely too insubstantial to justify destroying the existing harmony of the tax statutes.  The laws which we consider especially pertinent are the statute establishing the Board of Tax Appeals (now the Tax Court), the Declaratory Judgment Act, and § 7422 (e) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1954.
THE BOARD OF TAX APPEALS.
The Board of Tax Appeals was established by Congress in 1924 to permit taxpayers to secure a determination of tax liability before payment of the deficiency. 18 The Government argues that the Congress which passed this 1924 legislation thought full payment of the tax assessed was a condition for bringing suit in a District Court; that Congress believed this sometimes caused hardship; and that Congress set up the Board to alleviate that hardship. Petitioner denies this, and contends that Congress' sole purpose was to enable taxpayers to prevent the Government from collecting taxes by exercise of its power of distraint. 19
We believe that the legislative history surrounding both the creation of the Board and the subsequent revisions of the basic statute supports the Government. The House Committee Report, for example, explained the purpose of the bill as follows:
"The committee recommends the establishment of a Board of Tax Appeals to which a taxpayer may appeal prior to the payment of an additional assessment of income, excess-profits, war-profits, or estate taxes.  Although a taxpayer may, after payment of his tax, bring suit for the recovery thereof and thus secure   a judicial determination on the questions involved, he can not, in view of section 3224 of the Revised Statutes, which prohibits suits to enjoin the collection of taxes, secure such a determination prior to the payment of the tax.  The right of appeal after payment of the tax is an incomplete remedy, and does little to remove the hardship occasioned by an incorrect assessment.  The payment of a large additional tax on income received several years previous and which may have, since its receipt, been either wiped out by subsequent losses, invested in nonliquid assets, or spent, sometimes forces taxpayers into bankruptcy, and often causes great financial hardship and sacrifice.  These results are not remedied by permitting the taxpayer to sue for the recovery of the tax after this payment.  He is entitled to an appeal and to a determination of his liability for the tax prior to its payment." 20 (Emphasis added.)
Moreover, throughout the congressional debates are to be found frequent expressions of the principle that payment of the full tax was a precondition to suit: "pay his tax . . . then . . . file a claim for refund"; "pay the tax and then sue"; "a review in the courts after payment of the tax"; "he may still seek court review, but he must first pay the tax assessed"; "in order to go to court he must pay his assessment"; "he must pay it  before he can have a trial in court"; "pay the taxes adjudicated against him, and then commence a suit in a court"; "pay the tax . . . then . . . sue to get it back"; "paying his tax and bringing his suit"; "first pay his tax and then sue to get it back"; "take his case to the district court -- conditioned, of course, upon his paying the assessment." 21
Petitioner's argument falls under the weight of this evidence.  It is true, of course, that the Board of Tax Appeals procedure has the effect of staying collection, 22 and it may well be that Congress so provided in order to alleviate hardships caused by the long-standing bar against suits to enjoin the collection of taxes.  But it is a considerable leap to the further conclusion that amelioration of the hardship of prelitigation payment as a jurisdictional requirement was not another important motivation for Congress' action. 23 To reconcile the legislative history with this conclusion seems to require the presumption that all the Congressmen who spoke of payment of the assessment before suit as a hardship understood -- without saying -- that suit could be brought for whatever part of the assessment had been paid, but believed that, as a practical matter, hardship would nonetheless arise because the Government would require payment of the balance of the tax by exercising its power of distraint. But if this was in fact the view of these legislators, it is indeed extraordinary that they did not say so. 24 Moreover, if Congress' only concern was to prevent distraint, it is somewhat difficult to understand why Congress did not simply authorize injunction suits.  It is interesting to note in this connection that bills to permit the same type of prepayment litigation in the District Courts as is possible in the Tax Court have been introduced several times, but none has ever been adopted. 25
In sum, even assuming that one purpose of Congress in establishing the Board was to permit taxpayers to avoid distraint, it seems evident that another purpose was to furnish a forum where full payment of the assessment would not be a condition precedent to suit.  The result is a system in which there is one tribunal for prepayment litigation and another for post-payment litigation, with no room contemplated for a hybrid of the type proposed by petitioner.
THE DECLARATORY JUDGMENT ACT.
The Federal Declaratory Judgment Act of 1934 26 was amended by § 405 of the Revenue Act of 1935 expressly to except disputes "with respect to Federal taxes." 27 The Senate Report explained the purpose of the amendment as follows:
"Your committee has added an amendment making it clear that the Federal Declaratory Judgments Act of June 14, 1934, has no application to Federal taxes. The application of the Declaratory Judgments Act to taxes would constitute a radical departure from the long-continued policy of Congress (as expressed in Rev. Stat. 3224 and other provisions) with respect to the determination, assessment, and collection of Federal taxes.  Your committee believes that the orderly and prompt determination and collection of Federal taxes should not be interfered with by a procedure designed to facilitate the settlement of private controversies, and that existing procedure both in the Board of Tax Appeals and the courts affords ample remedies for the correction of tax errors." 28 (Emphasis added.)
It is clear enough that one "radical departure" which was averted by the amendment was the potential circumvention of the "pay first and litigate later" rule by way of suits for declaratory judgments in tax cases. 29 Petitioner would have us give this Court's imprimatur to precisely the same type of "radical departure," since a suit for recovery of but a part of an assessment would determine the legality of the balance by operation of the principle of collateral estoppel.  With respect to this unpaid portion, the taxpayer would be securing what is in effect -- even though not technically -- a declaratory judgment.  The frustration of congressional intent which petitioner asks us to endorse could hardly be more glaring, for he has conceded that his argument leads logically to the conclusion that payment of even $ 1 on a large assessment entitles the taxpayer to sue -- a concession amply warranted by the obvious impracticality of any judicially created jurisdictional standard midway between full payment and any payment.
SECTION 7422 (e) OF THE 1954 CODE.
One distinct possibility which would emerge from a decision in favor of petitioner would be that a taxpayer might be able to split his cause of action, bringing suit for refund of part of the tax in a Federal District Court and litigating in the Tax Court with respect to the remainder.  In such a situation the first decision would, of course, control.  Thus if for any reason a litigant would prefer a District Court adjudication, 30 he might sue for a small portion of the tax in that tribunal while at the same time protecting the balance from distraint by invoking the protection of the Tax Court procedure.  On the other hand, different questions would arise if this device were not employed.  For example, would the Government be required to file a compulsory counterclaim for the unpaid balance in District Court under Rule 13 of the Federal Rules of Civil Procedure?  If so, which party would have the burden of proof? 31
Section 7422 (e) of the 1954 Internal Revenue Code makes it apparent that Congress has assumed these problems are nonexistent except in the rare case where the taxpayer brings suit in a District Court and the Commissioner then notifies him of an additional deficiency.  Under § 7422 (e) such a claimant is given the option of pursuing his suit in the District Court or in the Tax Court, but he cannot litigate in both.  Moreover, if he decides to remain in the District Court, the Government may -- but seemingly is not required to -- bring a counterclaim; and if it does, the taxpayer has the burden of proof. 32 If we   were to overturn the assumption upon which Congress has acted, we would generate upon a broad scale the very problems Congress believed it had solved. 33
These, then, are the basic reasons for our decision, and our views would be unaffected by the constancy or inconstancy of administrative practice.  However, because the petition for rehearing in this case focused almost exclusively upon a single clause in the prior opinion -- "there does not appear to be a single case before 1940 in which a taxpayer attempted a suit for refund of income taxes without paying the full amount the Government alleged to be due,"  357 U.S., at 69 -- we feel obliged to comment upon the material introduced upon reargument. The reargument has, if anything, strengthened, rather than weakened, the substance of this statement, which was directed to the question whether there has been a consistent understanding of the "pay first and litigate later" principle by the interested government agencies and by the bar.
So far as appears,  Suhr v. United States, 18 F.2d 81, decided by the Third Circuit in 1927, is the earliest case in which a taxpayer in a refund action sought to contest an assessment without having paid the full amount then due. 34 In holding that the District Court had no jurisdiction of the action, the Court of Appeals said:
"None of the various tax acts provide for recourse to the courts by a taxpayer until he has failed to get relief from the proper administrative body or has paid all the taxes assessed against him.  The payment of a part does not confer jurisdiction upon the courts. . . .  There is no provision for refund to the taxpayer of any excess payment of any installment or part of his tax, if the whole tax for the year has not been paid."  Id., at 83.
Although the statement by the court might have been dictum, 35 it was in accord with substantially contemporaneous statements by Secretary of the Treasury A. W. Mellon, by Under Secretary of the Treasury Garrard B. Winston, by the first Chairman of the Board of Tax Appeals, Charles D. Hamel, and by legal commentators. 36
There is strong circumstantial evidence that this view of the jurisdiction of the courts was shared by the bar at least until 1940, when the Second Circuit Court of Appeals rejected the Government's position in  Coates v. United States, 111 F.2d 609. Out of the many thousands of refund cases litigated in the pre-1940 period -- the Government reports that there have been approximately 40,000 such suits in the past 40 years -- exhaustive research has uncovered only nine suits in which the issue was present, in six of which the Government contested jurisdiction on part-payment grounds. 37 The Government's failure to    raise the issue in the other three is obviously entirely without significance. Considerations of litigation strategy may have been thought to militate against resting upon such a defense in those cases.  Moreover, where only nine lawsuits involving a particular issue arise over a period of many decades, the policy of the Executive Department on that issue can hardly be expected to become familiar to every government attorney.  But most important, the number of cases before 1940 in which the issue was present is simply so inconsequential that it reinforces the conclusion of the prior opinion with respect to the uniformity of the pre-1940 belief that full payment had to precede suit.
A word should also be said about the argument that requiring taxpayers to pay the full assessments before bringing suits will subject some of them to great hardship. This contention seems to ignore entirely the right of the taxpayer to appeal the deficiency to the Tax Court without paying a cent. 38 If he permits his time for filing such an appeal to expire, he can hardly complain that he has been unjustly treated, for he is in precisely the same position as any other person who is barred by a statute of limitations. On the other hand, the Government has a substantial interest in protecting the public purse, an interest which would be substantially impaired if a taxpayer could sue in a District Court without paying his tax in full.  It is instructive to note that, as of June 30, 1959, tax cases pending in the Tax Court involved $ 920,046,748, and refund suits in other courts involved $ 446,673,640. 39   It is quite true that the filing of an appeal to the Tax Court normally precludes the Government from requiring payment of the tax, 40 but a decision in petitioner's favor could be expected to throw a great portion of the Tax Court litigation into the District Courts. 41 Of course, the Government can collect the tax from a District Court suitor by exercising its power of distraint -- if he does not split his cause of action -- but we cannot believe that compelling resort to this extraordinary procedure is either wise or in accord with congressional intent. Our system of taxation is based upon voluntary assessment and payment, not upon distraint. 42 A full-payment requirement will promote the smooth functioning of this system; a part-payment rule would work at cross-purposes with it. 43
In sum, if we were to accept petitioner's argument, we would sacrifice the harmony of our carefully structured twentieth century system of tax litigation, and all that would be achieved would be a supposed harmony of § 1346 (a)(1) with what might have been the nineteenth century law had the issue ever been raised.  Reargument has but fortified our view that § 1346 (a)(1),   correctly construed, requires full payment of the assessment before an income tax refund suit can be maintained in a Federal District Court.
Affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE FRANKFURTER.
I should like to append a word to my Brother WHITTAKER'S opinion, with which I entirely agree.
While  Dobson v. Commissioner, 320 U.S. 489, is no longer law, the opinion of the much lamented Mr. Justice Jackson, based as it was on his great experience in tax litigation, has not lost its force insofar as it laid bare the complexities and perplexities for judicial construction of tax legislation.  For one not a specialist in this field to examine every tax question that comes before the Court independently would involve in most cases an inquiry into the course of tax legislation and litigation far beyond the facts of the immediate case.  Such an inquiry entails weeks of study and reflection.  Therefore, in construing a tax law it has been my rule to follow almost blindly accepted understanding of the meaning of tax legislation, when that is manifested by long-continued, uniform practice, unless a statute leaves no admissible opening for administrative construction.
Therefore, when advised in connection with the disposition of this case after its first argument that "there does not appear to be a single case before 1940 in which a taxpayer attempted a suit for refund of income taxes without paying the full amount the Government alleged to be due,"  (357 U.S. 63, at 69), I deemed such a long-continued, unbroken practical construction of the statute controlling as to the meaning of the Revenue Act of 1921, now 28 U. S. C. § 1346 (a)(1).  Once the basis which for me governed the disposition of the case was no longer available, I was thrown back to an independent inquiry of the course of tax legislation and litigation for more than a hundred years, for all of that was relevant to a true understanding of the problem presented by this case.  This involved many weeks of study during what is called the summer vacation.  Such a study led to the conclusion set forth in detail in the opinion of my Brother WHITTAKER.
<dissent author="WHITTAKER" text="TRUE">
DISSENT BY: WHITTAKER
MR. JUSTICE WHITTAKER, with whom MR. JUSTICE FRANKFURTER, MR. JUSTICE HARLAN, and MR. JUSTICE STEWART join, dissenting.
A deep and abiding conviction that the Court today departs from the plain direction of Congress expressed in 28 U. S. C. § 1346 (a), defeats its beneficent purpose, and repudiates many soundly reasoned opinions of the federal courts on the question presented, compels me to express and explain my disagreement in detail.
In his income tax return for the year 1950, petitioner deducted in full, as ordinary in character, the losses he had suffered in commodity transactions in that year, but the Commissioner viewed those losses as capital in   character and proposed, by his 90-day letter, the assessment of a deficiency in the amount of $ 27,251.13, plus interest.  Petitioner did not petition the Tax Court for a redetermination of the proposed deficiency and the Commissioner assessed it on March 27, 1953.  In April and June 1953, petitioner paid to the Commissioner a total of $ 5,058.54 upon the assessment and timely   thereafter filed a claim for refund of that sum.  The claim was rejected on July 13, 1955, and, on August 3, 1956, petitioner brought this action against the United States in the District Court for Wyoming to recover the amount paid, alleging, inter alia, that said sum "has been illegally and unlawfully collected" from him, and he prayed judgment therefor with interest from the date of payment.
At the trial, the Government prevailed on the merits,  142 F.Supp. 602, but the Court of Appeals, without reaching the merits, remanded with directions to dismiss, holding that because the petitioner had not paid the entire amount of the assessment the District Court had no jurisdiction of the action. 246 F.2d 929. We granted certiorari and, after hearing, affirmed the judgment of the Court of Appeals.   357 U.S. 63. On June 22, 1959, we granted a petition for rehearing and restored the case to the docket.   360 U.S. 922. It has since been rebriefed, reargued and again submitted.
The case is now presented in a very different posture than before, as certain vital contentions that were previously made are now conceded to have been erroneous.
The question presented is whether a Federal District Court has jurisdiction of an action by a taxpayer against the United States to recover payments made to the Commissioner upon, but which discharged less than the entire amount of, an illegal assessment.
The answer to that question depends upon whether the United States has waived its sovereign immunity to, and has consented to, such a suit in a District Court.  The applicable jurisdictional statute is 28 U. S. C. § 1346 (a) .  It provides:
"The district courts shall have original jurisdiction, concurrent with the Court of Claims, of:
"(1) Any civil action against the United States for the recovery of any internal-revenue tax alleged to have been erroneously or illegally assessed or collected, or any penalty claimed to have been collected without authority or any sum alleged to have been excessive or in any manner wrongfully collected under the internal-revenue laws." (Emphasis added.)
In its former opinion the Court recognized that the words of the statute might "be termed a clear authorization to sue for the refund of 'any sum,'"  357 U.S., at 65, but it concluded that Congress had left room in the statute for an implication that the waiver of immunity and grant of jurisdiction applied only to refund suits in which the entire amounts of assessments had been paid. Advocating the existence of that implication, the Government contended and urged that, from the time of the decision in  Cheatham v. United States, 92 U.S. 85, in 1875 until the decision in  Coates v. United States, 111 F.2d 609 (C. A. 2d Cir.), in 1940, there was an unquestioned understanding and uniform practice that full payment of an assessment was a condition upon the right to sue for refund; and, finding what it then accepted as adequate support for that contention, the Court was persuaded that, since no subsequent statute had purported to change it, such unquestioned understanding so long and uniformly applied was still effective.
Support for that asserted unquestioned understanding and uniform practice was principally derived from two sources.  First, statements in  Cheatham v. United States, supra, were thought to have enunciated a full-payment   doctrine 1 which seemed never to have been directly questioned. Second, the contention was accepted that "there does not appear to be a single case before 1940 in which a taxpayer attempted a suit for refund of income taxes without paying the full amount the Government alleged to be due."  357 U.S., at 69.
The Government now concedes that the second contention was erroneous.  There were, for example, two cases in this Court (  Cook v. Tait, 265 U.S. 47 (1924); Bowers v. Kerbaugh-Empire Co., 271 U.S. 170 (1926)) in which taxpayers had sued for refunds after having paid only portions (in one case $ 298.34 of an assessment of $ 1,193.38, in the other $ 5,198.77 of an assessment of $ 10,320.14) of the amounts assessed against them.  It was not contended by the Government in either of those cases that there was any want of jurisdiction, and this Court considered and decided both upon the merits. 2 Petitioner has now cited many other tax refund cases, decided in the lower courts prior to 1940, in which taxpayers had paid, and sued to recover, less than the whole of assessments alleged to have been illegal, and in which cases the Government did not question jurisdiction. 3 The Government concedes that in at least two of these ( Thomas v. United States, 85 Ct. Cl. 313, 18 F.Supp. 942 (1937);  Tsivoglou v. United States, 31 F.2d 706 (C. A. 1st Cir. 1929), affirming  27 F.2d 564 (D. C. Mass. 1928)) taxpayers had paid, and sued to   recover, less than the whole of deficiency assessments and that the Government did not question jurisdiction in either of them.  Prior to the decision in the present case there were two decisions in the Courts of Appeals that fully treated with the precise question here presented.  Both held that District Courts have jurisdiction over actions to recover partial payments upon assessments alleged to have been illegal.   Coates v. United States, 111 F.2d 609 (C. A. 2d Cir. 1940);  Bushmiaer v. United States, 230 F.2d 146 (C. A. 8th Cir. 1956). 4 Certainly, the cited cases and the Government's   concession preclude a conclusion that there ever was an unquestioned understanding and uniform practice that full payment of an assessed deficiency was a condition upon the jurisdiction of a District Court to entertain a suit for refund.
In the light of the foregoing, it is clear that nothing in  Cheatham v. United States, supra, fairly may be said to hold that full payment of an illegally assessed deficiency is a condition upon the jurisdiction of a District Court to entertain a suit for refund. No such issue was involved in that case.  There the assessment had been fully paid, and the only issue was whether a proper claim for refund was a condition precedent to the maintenance of a suit to recover the amount alleged to have been illegally collected. Not only were the statements there made respecting "payment of the tax" pure dictum, but even the language there used did not embrace, and certainly was not directed to, the question whether full payment of an assessment is a condition upon the jurisdiction of a District Court to entertain a suit for refund.
I pass, then, to an examination of the history of the present jurisdictional provision, § 1346 (a), and the scheme of the present tax law to determine whether there is any real support for the Government's contention that a proper reading of the language of § 1346 (a) requires an implied qualification to its obvious self-explanatory meaning, so that full payment of an assessment, alleged to have been illegal, is made a condition upon the jurisdiction of a District Court to entertain a suit for refund.
Judicial proceedings for refund of United States taxes in federal courts originated, without express statutory authority, by suits against Collectors (now District Directors), before the United States had made itself amenable to suit.   Elliott v. Swartwout, 10 Pet. 137 (1836), recognized the existence of a right of action against a Collector of Customs for refund of duties   illegally assessed and paid under protest. 5 The doctrine of the action, based upon the common-law count of assumpsit for money had and received, was thus formulated: "Where money is illegally demanded and received by an agent, he cannot exonerate himself from personal responsibility by paying it over to his principal; if he has had notice not to pay it over."  10 Pet., at 158. As a result of that case, Collectors of Customs who collected monies, paid under protest, resorted to the practice of withholding such amounts from the Government as indemnity against loss should a refund suit against them be successful.  See Plumb, Tax Refund Suits Against Collectors of Internal Revenue, 60 Harv. L. Rev. 685, 688-689. That practice led to abuses and facilitated peculation under the guise of self-protection.  Because of the wholesale frauds of Swartwout, the New York Collector (see Swartwout, 18 Dictionary of American Biography (1936), 238-239), Congress, in 1839, expressly prohibited such withholdings by Customs Collectors pending the possibility, or the result, of litigation against them.  Act of Mar. 3, 1839, c. 82, § 2, 5 Stat. 348.  Six years later, in 1845, this Court held that this Act, by reducing the Collector to "the mere bearer of those sums  to the Treasury," terminated the right of action against the Collector for refund, for, being deprived of the right to withhold payment to his principal, he was no longer under an implied promise to refund illegally collected duties to the taxpayer.   Cary v. Curtis, 3 How. 236, 241 (1845).
This created the intolerable condition of denying to taxpayers any remedy whatever in the District Courts to recover amounts illegally assessed and collected, and -- doubtless also influenced by the vigorous dissents of Mr.   Justice Story and Mr. Justice McLean in that case --  induced Congress to pass the Act of Feb. 26, 1845, c. 22, 5 Stat. 727, 6 which was the first statute expressly giving taxpayers the right to sue for refund of taxes illegally collected. That Act, in substance, provided that nothing contained in the Act of Mar. 3, 1839 (c. 82, § 2, 5 Stat. 348), should be construed to take away or impair the right of any person who had paid duties under protest to any Collector of Customs, which were not lawfully "payable in part or in whole," to maintain an action at law against the Collector to recover such amounts.  It is evident that Congress, by that statute, was merely concerned to reverse the consequences of  Cary v. Curtis, supra, and to restore the right of action against Collectors which had originally been sustained in  Elliott v. Swartwout, supra. Neither the terms of that statute nor such knowledge as is available of its history 7 reveals any limiting purpose except that the protest be made in writing before or at the time of the payment.
While that statute, the Act of Feb. 26, 1845, referred only to refunds of customs duties, this Court held in  City of Philadelphia v. The Collector, 5 Wall. 720, 730-733 (1866), that taxpayers had the same right of action against Collectors to recover illegally collected internal revenue taxes. 8
The United States was first made directly suable in District Courts for tax refunds by the Act of Mar. 3, 1887, c. 359, 24 Stat. 505, commonly known as the Tucker Act, which conferred jurisdiction on the District Courts over "All claims  founded upon the Constitution of the United States or any law of Congress, . . . or upon any contract, expressed or implied, with the Government of the United States, or for damages, liquidated or unliquidated, in cases not sounding in tort, in respect of which claims the party would be entitled to redress against the United States either in a court of law, equity, or admiralty if the United States were suable." This jurisdictional grant was held, in  United States v. Emery, Bird, Thayer Realty Co., 237 U.S. 28 (1915), to have included jurisdiction over suits for tax refunds, as claims "founded upon" the internal revenue laws.  The general language of that Act, the Tucker Act, was most evidently not intended to, and did not, impose any new conditions upon the pre-existing right to sue (the Collector) for the refund of taxes illegally collected, save for a monetary limit of $ 1,000, which was increased to $ 10,000 in 1911. 9
The gist of § 1346 (a), 10 with which we are now concerned, first appeared in the jurisdictional statute in 1921, as part of the Revenue Act of 1921, c. 136, § 1310 (c), 42 Stat. 311.  The reason for its appearance is entirely unrelated to the question whether full payment of an assessment is a condition precedent to a suit for refund. Under the Tucker Act, as it stood in 1921, the United States could not be sued in a District Court for a tax refund of more than $ 10,000.  Taxpayers with larger claims could pursue either their old remedy -- which continued to be available and is today -- against the Collector in the District Courts or their remedy against the United States in the Court of Claims.  But, the right of suit against the Collector was impaired in 1921 by the decision in  Smietanka v. Indiana Steel Co., 257 U.S. 1 (1921). It held that such actions against the Collector were personal in character and not maintainable against his successor in office.  Hence, if the Collector had died or ceased to be in office, a taxpayer with a refund claim of more than $ 10,000 had no remedy in a District Court.  The portion of the Revenue Act of 1921 that is now embodied in § 1346 (a) was an amendment of the Tucker Act and was designed to preserve to taxpayers with claims of more than $ 10,000 a District Court remedy, even where the Collector had died or was out of office, by suit against the United States.  The legislative history makes this purpose plain. 11
The relevant portion of the 1921 Amendment to the Tucker Act -- part of the Revenue Act of 1921 (c. 136, § 1310 (c), 42 Stat. 311) 12 -- was apparently taken from a provision in Revised Statutes § 3226 (1875) that "No suit shall be maintained in any court for the recovery of any internal revenue tax alleged to have been erroneously or illegally assessed or collected, or of any penalty claimed to have been collected without authority, or of any sum alleged to have been excessive or in any manner wrongfully collected, until appeal shall have been duly made to the Commissioner of the Internal Revenue." 13 In that context it is clear that the language "any tax," "any penalty" or "any sum" had no reference to what payments were required to precede a suit for refund. Quite evidently, its function was only to describe, in broadest terms,   the claims for refund which were required to be submitted to the Commissioner before suit might be brought thereon.  What reasonable basis is there for ascribing to Congress, by reason of its insertion of this language into the Tucker Act, an intent to require full payment of an illegal assessment as a condition upon the jurisdiction of a District Court to entertain a suit for refund? The change was a jurisdictional one in a jurisdictional statute, and the language, it is almost necessary to assume, was chosen because, in another statute, it referred to all of the actions which could be brought for refund of internal revenue taxes.
The Government heavily relies on statements made in Congress pertaining to the establishment in 1924 of the Board of Tax Appeals (since 1942 designated the Tax Court) and its reorganization in 1926.  It asserts that these statements demonstrate a congressional understanding that the broad language in § 1346 (a) excludes jurisdiction of District Courts to entertain suits to recover only partial payments of assessments alleged to be illegal.  It is true that those statements, some of which are reproduced in the margin, 14 are consistent with the Government's    interpretation of that section. But, as with the statements in  Cheatham v. United States, supra, they are not directed to the question we have here and are too imprecise for the drawing of such a far-reaching inference, involving, as it does, the interpolation of a drastic qualification into the otherwise plain, clear and unlimited provisions of the statute.
The Tax Court was created to alleviate hardships occasioned by the fact that the collection of assessments, however illegal, could not be enjoined.  And the Government argues that the hardships which motivated Congress to establish the Tax Court would not have existed if a taxpayer could, as the petitioner did here, pay only part of a deficiency assessment and then, by way of a suit for refund, litigate the legality of the assessment in a District Court.  But that procedure would not then, nor today, afford any sure relief to taxpayers from the hardships which troubled Congress in 1924, for it is undisputed that the institution of a suit for refund of a partial payment of an assessment does not stay the Commissioner's power of collection 15 by distraint or otherwise, and a taxpayer with the property or means to pay the balance of the assessment cannot avoid its payment, except through the Commissioner's acquiescence and failure to exercise his power of distraint. 16
The Government argues, with some force, that our tax legislation as a whole contemplates the Tax Court as the forum for adjudication of deficiencies, and the District Courts and Court of Claims as the forums for adjudication of refund suits.  This, in general, is true, and it is also true that to hold that full payment of assessments is not a condition upon the jurisdiction of District Courts to entertain suits for refund is to sanction what may be called a "hybrid" remedy in the District Courts, for the suit of the   taxpayer who has paid only part of an assessment and has sued for refund will, under application of the principles of collateral estoppel, determine the legality of the remainder of the deficiency as well as his right to refund of the amount paid.  But such dual determinations are possible under the present law 17 and it is difficult to conceive how they may create sufficient disharmony to justify such a strained interpretation of the plain words of § 1346 (a) as the Government's contention would require. 18
Nor is the argument sound that to hold that full payment of an illegal assessment is not a condition upon the jurisdiction of District Courts to entertain suits for refund would unduly hamper the collection of taxes, by encouraging taxpayers to withhold payment of large portions of assessments while prosecuting litigation for the refund of the part already paid.  Not only is it true that the institution of a suit for refund does not stay collection, 19 but, since the creation of the Tax Court, any taxpayer has a method of withholding payment, immune from distraint, 20 until the legality of the assessment is finally determined.  Any delay in collection which might be caused by holding that full payment of an assessment is not a condition upon the jurisdiction of a District Court to entertain a suit for refund would be of the same order as the delay incident to adjudication by the Tax Court, and would not create so incongruous a result as to justify giving an otherwise clear and unlimited statute a strained and unnatural meaning.
Petitioner, on the other hand, suggests that if it be held that full payment of illegal assessments is a condition upon the jurisdiction of District Courts in refund suits, not only will the words of § 1346 (a) be disregarded, but great hardships upon taxpayers will result, and that such an intention should not lightly be implied.  Where a taxpayer has paid, upon a normal or a "jeopardy" assessment, either voluntarily or under compulsion of distraint, a part only of an illegal assessment and is unable to pay the balance within the two-year period of limitations, 21 he would be deprived of any means of establishing the invalidity of the assessment and of recovering the amount illegally collected from him, unless it be held, as it seems to me Congress plainly provided in § 1346 (a), that full payment is not a condition upon the jurisdiction of District Courts to entertain suits for refund. 22 Likewise, taxpayers   who pay assessments in installments would be without remedy to recover early installments that were wrongfully collected should the period of limitations run before the last installment is paid.
No one has suggested that Congress could not constitutionally confer jurisdiction upon District Courts to entertain suits against the United States to recover sums wrongfully collected under, but which did not discharge the whole of, illegal assessments.  Nor can it be denied that Congress has provided in § 1346 (a) that:
"The district courts shall have original jurisdiction . . . of . . . Any civil action against the United States for the recovery of . . . any sum alleged to have been excessive or in any manner wrongfully collected under the internal-revenue laws." (Emphasis added.)
English words more clearly expressive of the grant of jurisdiction to Federal District Courts over such cases than those used by Congress do not readily occur to me.
It must, therefore, be concluded that there is no sound reason for implying into § 1346 (a) a limitation that full payment of an illegal assessment is a condition upon the jurisdiction of a District Court to entertain a suit for refund. Inasmuch as no contradiction or absurdity is created by so doing, I think it is our duty to rely upon the words of § 1346 (a) rather than upon unarticulated implications or exceptions.  Particularly is this so in dealing with legislation in an area such as internal revenue, where countless rules and exceptions are the subjects of frequent revisions and precise refinements.
By § 1346 (a) Congress expressed its purpose to waive sovereign immunity to suits, and to grant jurisdiction to District Courts over suits, to recover "any sum alleged to have been excessive or in any manner wrongfully collected under the internal-revenue laws." Surely these words do not limit the waiver of immunity or the grant of jurisdiction to actions in which the entire amounts of illegal assessments have been paid.  Even if the words "any internal-revenue tax" or "any penalty," when read in isolation and most restrictively, could be thought to contemplate only the entire amount of an illegal assessment, the concluding phrase -- "or any sum alleged to have been excessive or in any manner wrongfully collected" -- leaves no room or basis for any such construction of the statute as a whole.  Judged by its text and its history in relation to other provisions of the tax laws, as must be done, I cannot doubt that Congress plainly expressed its intention to waive sovereign immunity to suits, and to grant jurisdiction to District Courts over suits, against the United States to recover "any sum" alleged to have been wrongfully collected. Petitioner's complaint here alleged that the $ 5,058.54 which he had paid to the Commissioner upon the questioned assessment "has been illegally and unlawfully collected" from him.  The complaint, therefore, stated a cause of action within the jurisdiction of the District Court.
But the Court does not so see it.  The majority now hold, despite the statute, that full payment of an illegal assessment is a condition upon the jurisdiction of a District Court to entertain a suit for refund. It, therefore, seems appropriate, in order eventually to avoid the harsh injustice of permitting the Government unlawfully to collect and retain taxes that are not owing, to express the hope that Congress will try again.
