OPINION
MR. JUSTICE WHITE delivered the opinion of the Court.
The Borden Company, respondent here, produces and sells evaporated milk under the Borden name, a nationally advertised brand. At the same time Borden packs and markets evaporated milk under various private brands owned by its customers. This milk is physically and chemically identical with the milk it distributes under its own brand but is sold at both the wholesale and retail level at prices regularly below those obtained for the Borden brand milk. The Federal Trade Commission found the milk sold under the Borden and the private labels to be of like grade and quality as required for the applicability of § 2 (a) of the Robinson-Patman Act, 1 held the price differential to be discriminatory   within the meaning of the section, ascertained the requisite adverse effect on commerce, rejected Borden's claim of cost justification and consequently issued a cease-and-desist order.  The Court of Appeals set aside the Commission's order on the sole ground that as a matter of law, the customer label milk was not of the same grade and quality as the milk sold under the  Borden brand. 339 F.2d 133. Because of the importance of this issue, which bears on the reach and coverage of the Robinson-Patman Act, we granted certiorari.   382 U.S. 807. We now reverse the decision of the Court of Appeals and remand the case to that court for the determination of the remaining issues raised by respondent   Borden in that court.  Cf.   Federal Trade Comm'n v. Anheuser-Busch, Inc., 363 U.S. 536, 542.  
The position of Borden and of the Court of Appeals is that the determination of like grade and quality, which is a threshold finding essential to the applicability of § 2 (a), may not be based solely on the physical properties of the products without regard to the brand names they bear and the relative public acceptance these brands enjoy -- "consideration should be given to all commercially significant distinctions which affect market value, whether they be physical or promotional."  339 F.2d, at 137. Here, because the milk bearing the Borden brand regularly sold at a higher price than did the milk with a buyer's label, the court considered the products to be "commercially" different and hence of different "grade" for the purposes of § 2 (a), even though they were physically identical and of equal quality.  Although a mere difference in brand would not in itself demonstrate a difference in grade, decided consumer preference for one brand over another, reflected in the willingness to pay a higher price for the well-known brand, was, in the view of the Court of Appeals, sufficient to differentiate chemically identical products and to place the price differential beyond the reach of § 2 (a).
We reject this construction of § 2 (a), as did both the examiner and the Commission in this case.  The Commission's view is that   labels do not differentiate products for the purpose of determining grade or quality, even though the one label may have more customer appeal and command a higher price in the marketplace from a substantial segment of the public.  That this is the Commission's long-standing interpretation of the present Act, as well as of § 2 of the Clayton Act before its amendment by the Robinson-Patman Act, 2 may be gathered from the Commission's decisions dating back to 1936.   Whitaker Cable Corp., 51 F. T. C. 958 (1955);  Page Dairy Co., 50 F. T. C. 395 (1953);  United States Rubber Co., 46 F. T. C. 998 (1950);  United States Rubber Co., 28 F. T. C. 1489 (1939); Hansen Inoculator Co., 26 F. T. C. 303 (1938);  Goodyear Tire & Rubber Co., 22 F. T. C. 232 (1936). These views of the agency are entitled to respect,  Federal Trade Comm'n v. Mandel Brothers, Inc., 359 U.S. 385, 391, and represent a more reasonable construction of the statute than that offered by the Court of Appeals. 3
Obviously there is nothing in the language of the statute indicating that grade, as distinguished from quality, is not to be determined by the characteristics of the product itself, but by consumer preferences, brand acceptability or what customers think of it and are willing to pay for it.  Moreover, what legislative history there is concerning this question supports the Commission's construction of the statute rather than that of the Court of Appeals.
During the 1936 hearings on the proposed amendments to § 2 of the Clayton Act, the attention of the Congress was specifically called to the question of the applicability of § 2 to the practice of a manufacturer selling his product under his nationally advertised brand at a different price than he charged when the product was sold under a private label. Because it was feared that the Act would require the elimination of such price differentials, Hearings on H. R. 4995 before the House Committee on the Judiciary, 74th Cong., 2d Sess., p. 355, and because private brands "would  be put out of business by the nationally advertised brands," it was suggested that the proposed § 2 (a) be amended so as to apply only to sales of commodities of "like grade, quality and brand." (Emphasis added.) Id., at 421. There was strong objection to the amendment and it was not adopted by the Committee. 4 The rejection of this amendment assumes particular significance since it was pointed out in the hearings that the legality of price differentials between proprietary and private brands was then pending before the Federal Trade Commission in  Goodyear Tire & Rubber Co., 22 F. T. C. 232. By the time the Committee Report was written, the Commission had decided Goodyear.  The report quoted from the decision and interpreted it as holding that Goodyear had violated the Act because "at no time did it offer to its own dealers prices on Goodyear brands of tires which were comparable to prices at which respondent was selling tires of equal or comparable quality to Sears, Roebuck & Co." H. R. Rep. No. 2287, 74th Cong., 2d Sess., p. 4.
During the debates on the bill, Representative Patman, one of the bill's sponsors, was asked about the private label issue.  His brief response is wholly consistent with the Commission's interpretation of § 2 (a), 80 Cong. Rec. 8115:
"Mr. TAYLOR of South Carolina.  There has grown up a practice on the part of manufacturers of making certain brands of goods for particular chain stores.  Is there anything in this bill calculated to remedy that situation?
"Mr. PATMAN.  . . . I have not time to discuss that feature, but the bill will protect the independents in that way, because they will have to sell to the independents at the same price for the same product where they put the same quality of merchandise in a package, and this will remedy the situation to which the gentleman refers.
"Mr. TAYLOR of South Carolina.  Irrespective of the brand.
"Mr. PATMAN.  Yes; so long as it is the same quality. . . ."
The Commission's construction of the statute also appears to us to further the purpose and policy of the Robinson-Patman Act. Subject to specified exceptions and defenses, § 2 (a) proscribes unequal treatment of different customers in comparable transactions, but only if there is the requisite effect upon competition, actual or potential.  But if the transactions are deemed to involve goods of disparate grade or quality, the section has no application at all and the Commission never reaches either the issue of discrimination or that of anticompetitive impact.  We doubt that Congress intended to foreclose these inquiries in situations where a single seller markets the identical product under several different brands, whether his own, his customers' or both.  Such   transactions are too laden with potential discrimination and adverse competitive effect to be excluded from the reach of § 2 (a) by permitting a difference in grade to be established by the label alone or by the label and its consumer appeal. 5
If two products, physically identical but differently branded, are to be deemed of different grade because the seller regularly and successfully markets some quantity of both at different prices, the seller could, as far as § 2 (a) is concerned, make either product available to some customers and deny it to others, however discriminatory this might be and however damaging to competition.  Those who were offered only one of the two products would be barred from competing for those customers who want or might buy the other.  The retailer who was permitted to buy and sell only the more expensive brand would have no chance to sell to those who always buy the cheaper product or to convince others, by experience or otherwise, of the fact which he and all other dealers already know -- that the cheaper product is actually identical with that carrying the more expensive label.
The seller, to escape the Act, would have only to succeed in selling some unspecified amount of each product to some unspecified portion of his customers, however large or small the price differential might be.  The seller's pricing and branding policy, by being successful, would apparently validate itself by creating a difference in "grade" and thus   taking itself beyond the purview of the Act. 6
Our   holding neither ignores the economic realities of the marketplace nor denies that some labels will command a higher price than others, at least from some portion of the public.  But it does mean that "  the economic   factors inherent in brand names and national advertising should not be considered in the jurisdictional inquiry under the statutory 'like grade and quality' test." Report of The Attorney General's National Committee to Study the Antitrust Laws 158 (1955).  And it does mean that transactions like those involved in this case may be examined by the Commission under § 2 (a).  The Commission will determine, subject to judicial review, whether the differential under attack is discriminatory within the meaning of the Act, whether competition may be injured,  and whether the differential is cost-justified or is defensible as a good-faith effort to meet the price of a competitor. "Tangible consumer preferences as between branded and unbranded commodities should receive due legal recognition in the more flexible 'injury' and 'cost justification' provisions of the statute." Id., at 159.  This, we think, is precisely what Congress intended.  The arguments for exempting private brand selling from § 2 (a) are, therefore, more appropriately addressed to the Congress than to this Court. 7
The Court of Appeals suggested that the Commission's views of like grade and quality for the purposes of § 2 (a) cannot be squared with its rulings in cases where a seller presents the defense under § 2 (b) 8 that he is in good faith meeting the equally low price of a competitor. 9 In those cases, it is said, the Commission has given full recognition to the significance of the higher prices commanded by the nationally advertised brand "in holding that a seller who reduces the price of his premium product to the level of his non-premium competitors is not merely meeting competition, but undercutting it."  339 F.2d, at 138.
The Commission, on the other hand, sees no inconsistency between its present decision and its § 2 (b) cases.  In its view, the issue under § 2 (b) of whether a seller's lower price is a good-faith meeting of competition involves considerations different from those presented by the jurisdictional question of "like grade and quality" under § 2 (a).
We need not resolve these contrary positions.  The issue we have here relates to § 2 (a), not to § 2 (b), and we think the Commission has resolved it correctly. The § 2 (b) cases are not now before us and we do not venture to decide them. The judgment of the Court of Appeals is reversed and the case is remanded for further proceedings consistent with this opinion.
It is so ordered.
<dissent author="STEWART" text="TRUE">
DISSENT BY: STEWART
MR. JUSTICE STEWART, with whom MR. JUSTICE HARLAN joins, dissenting.
I cannot agree that mere physical or chemical identity between premium and private label brands is, without more, a sufficient basis for a finding of "like grade and quality" within the meaning of § 2 (a) of the Robinson-Patman Act.  The conclusion that a product that travels at a premium in the marketplace is of "like grade and quality" with products of inferior commercial value is not required by the language of the Robinson-Patman Act, by its logic, or by its legislative history.
It is undisputed that the physical attributes and chemical constituents of Borden's premium and private label brands of evaporated milk are identical.  It is also undisputed that the premium and private label brands are not competitive at the same price, and that if the private label milk is to be sold at all, it must be sold at prices substantially below the price commanded by Borden's premium brand. 1 This simple market fact no more than reflects the obvious economic reality that consumer preferences can and do create significant commercial distinctions between otherwise similar products.  By pursuing product comparison only so far as the result of laboratory analysis, the Court ignores a most relevant aspect of the inquiry into the question of "like grade and quality" under § 2 (a): Whether the products are different in the eyes of the consumer. 2
There is nothing intrinsic to the concepts of grade and quality that requires exclusion of the commercial attributes of a product from their definition.  The product purchased by a consumer includes not only the chemical components that any competent laboratory can itemize, but also a host of commercial intangibles that distinguish the product in the marketplace. 3 The premium paid for Borden brand milk reflects the consumer's awareness, promoted through advertising, that these commercial attributes are part and parcel of the premium product he is purchasing. 4 The record in the present case indicates that wholesale purchasers of Borden's private label brands continued to purchase the premium brand in undiminished quantities.  The record also indicates that retail purchasers who bought the premium brand did so with the specific expectation of acquiring a product of premium quality. 5 Contrary to the Court's suggestion, ante, p. 644, this consumer expectation cannot accurately be characterized as a misapprehension. Borden took extensive precautions to insure that a flawed product did not reach the consumer. 6 None of these precautions was taken for the private brand milk packed by Borden. 7 An important ingredient of the premium brand inheres in the consumer's belief, measured by past satisfaction and the market reputation established by Borden for its products, that tomorrow's can will contain the same premium product as that purchased today.  To say, as the Court does, that these and other intangibles, which comprise an important part of the commercial value of a product, are not sufficient to confer on Borden's premium brand a "grade" or "quality" different from that of private label brands is to ignore the obvious market acceptance of that difference.  "Commercially the 'advertised' brands had come in the minds of the public to mean a different grade of milk. The public may have been wrong; . . . it may have been right . . . .  But right or wrong, that is what it believed, and its belief   was the important thing." Borden's Farm Products Co. v.  Ten Eyck, 11 F.Supp. 599, 601 (D. C. S. D. N. Y.) (opinion of L. Hand, J.). 8
The spare legislative history of the Robinson-Patman Act is in no way inconsistent with a construction of § 2 (a) that includes market acceptance in the test of "like grade and quality." That history establishes no more than that mere differences in brand or design, unaccompanied by any genuine physical, chemical, or market distinction, are insufficient to negate a finding of "like grade and quality" under § 2 (a). 9 Nothing that I have found in the legislative history speaks with precision to the sole issue before us here, the application of § 2 (a) to physically or chemically identical products that are in fact differentiated by substantial market factors. 10
Neither the remarks of Representative Patman, ante, p. 643, nor the letter of Mr. Teegarden, ante, p. 641, n. 4, supports the Court's conclusion that Congress intended physical and chemical identity to be the sole touchstone of "like grade and quality." Aside from the obviously casual nature of Mr. Patman's reply to the question concerning the effect of the Act on private label brands, 11 his remarks go embarrassingly further than the circumspect reading sought to be given them by the Court.  On its face, Mr. Patman's statement makes the blanket assertion that all products of the same quality must be sold at the same price.  As thus stated, premium brands would have to be sold at the same price as private label brands, regardless of injury to competition, cost justification, or other available defenses under the Act. These undifferentiated remarks are therefore of little assistance in the determination of congressional intent.  Far from supporting the Court's interpretation of § 2 (a), the final paragraph of the Teegarden letter suggests that Mr. Teegarden considered the bill to have no effect on a premium brand producer's decision to furnish private label brands to purchasers, so long as the private label brands were made available on the same terms to all purchasers. Mr. Teegarden's concern was with the prevention of discrimination between purchasers on the basis of artificial differences in brand. 12 That same concern, and no more, is all that may legitimately be read into the rejection by Congress of the proposal to add "and brands" to the "like grade and quality" provision in the bill.  By rejecting that proposal, it can be inferred only that Congress contemplated "no blanket exemption . . . for 'like' products which differed only in brand . . . , leaving open the application of the Act to differentiated products reflecting more than a nominal or superficial variation." Rowe, Price Discrimination Under the Robinson-Patman Act 65 (1962).
The references in the legislative hearings and the House Committee Report to the Commission's decision in  Goodyear Tire & Rubber Co., 22 F. T. C. 232, are equally inconclusive on the relevance of commercial acceptance to the determination of "like grade and quality." The striking aspect of that case is that Goodyear conceded that the differently branded tires involved in the proceeding were of like grade and quality,  22 F. T. C., at 290. Moreover, the tires purchased by Sears, Roebuck & Co. from Goodyear and sold under Sears' "All State" label were advertised by Sears as obtained from "the leading tire manufacturer" and "   the world's foremost tire manufacturer," so that the market independence of Sears' private brand was compromised.   Id., at 295, 297.
The other administrative precedents relied on by the Court also fail to establish any consistently settled interpretation by the Federal Trade Commission that physical identity is the sole touchstone of "like grade and quality." Those decisions singularly fail to focus on the significance of consumer preference as a relevant factor in the test of grade and quality.  13 Moreover, the Commission has itself explicitly resorted to consumer preference or marketability to resolve the issue of "like grade and quality" in cases where minor physical variations accompany a difference in product brand. 14 The caprice of the Commission's present distinction thus invites Borden to incorporate slight tangible variations in its private label products, in order to bring itself within the Commission's current practice of considering market preferences in such cases.
The Commission's determination of "like grade and quality" under § 2 (a) in this case is seriously inconsistent with the position it has taken under § 2 (b) in cases where a seller has presented the defense that he is in good faith meeting the equally low price of a competitor. The Commission decisions are clear that the "meeting competition" defense is not available to a seller who reduces the price of his premium product to the level of nonpremium products sold by his competitors. The Commission decisions under § 2 (b) emphasize that market preference must be considered in determining whether a competitor is "meeting" rather than "beating" competition.  In  Standard Oil Co ., 49 F. T. C. 923, 952, the Commission put it baldly:
"In the retail distribution of gasoline public acceptance rather than chemical analysis of the product is the important competitive factor." 15
Could the Commission under § 2 (b) now prevent Borden from reducing the price of its premium milk to the level of private label milk? I can see no way that it could, short of maintaining a manifestly unstable equilibrium between § 2 (a) and § 2 (b).  By adopting a keyhole approach to § 2 (a), the Court manages to escape resolution of the question, but it does so at the cost of casting grave doubt on what I had regarded as an important bulwark of § 2 (b) against a recognized competitive evil.
The Court gives no substantial economic justification for its construction of § 2 (a). 16 The principal rationale of the restriction of that section to commodities of "like grade and quality" is simply that it is not feasible to measure discrimination and injury to competition where different products are involved.  That rationale is as valid for economic as for physical variation between products.  Once a substantial economic difference between products is found, therefore, the inquiry of the Commission should be ended, just as it is ended when a substantial physical difference is found.
In spite of the assertion of the Attorney General's Report quoted by the Court, it is unlikely that economic differences between premium and private label brands can realistically be taken into account by the Commission under the "injury to competition" and "cost justification" provisions of § 2 (a). 17 Even if relevant cost data can be agreed upon, the cost ratio between Borden's premium and private label products is hardly the most significant factor in Borden's pricing decision and market return on those products.  Moreover, even if price discrimination is found here, its effect on competition may prove even more difficult to determine than in more conventional cases of price discrimination under § 2 (a).  Cf.   FTC v. Morton Salt Co., 334 U.S. 37; United Biscuit Co. v.  FTC, 350 F.2d 615 (C. A. 7th Cir.).
The threat presented to primary line competition by Borden's distribution of premium and private label brands is unclear.  No allegation was made that Borden has used its dominant position in the premium brand market to subsidize predatory price-cutting campaigns in the private label market.  Borden packs its private label brands for national distribution, so that this case is essentially   different from those in which geographical price discriminations are involved.  Further, Borden's private label brands are aimed in part at a different, more price-conscious class of consumer. Because relevant economic factors differ in the premium and private label markets, conventional notions of price discrimination under the Robinson-Patman Act may not be applicable. 18 More important, Borden's extensive distribution of its private label brands has introduced significant low-cost competition for Borden's own premium product. Thus, the large retail chains and cooperative buyer organizations that are Borden's chief private label customers represent a significant source of countervailing power to the oligopoly pattern of evaporated milk production. The rise of this sort of competition is well known in other parts of the food industry. 19 In these circumstances, the anticompetitive leverage against primary line competition available to Borden through its private label production is sharply curtailed.  There is, therefore, no real resemblance in   this case to the serious discriminatory practices that the Robinson-Patman Act was enacted to prevent.
The potential economic impact of Borden's distribution of private label brands on secondary line competition is equally ambiguous.  It is true that a market test of "like grade and quality" would enable Borden, so far as § 2 (a) is concerned, to make private label brands selectively available to customers of its premium brand. Not all wholesale and retail dealers who carry Borden's premium brand would be able, as of right, to take advantage of Borden's private label production.  But the Commission could still apply § 2 (a) with full force against discriminations between private label customers. And the Government could still invoke § 2 of the Sherman Act or § 5 of the Federal Trade Commission Act to deal with other forms of price discrimination by Borden against its customers or competitors.
Under the Court's view of § 2 (a), Borden must now make private label milk available to all customers of its premium brand. 20 But that interpretation of § 2 (a) is hardly calculated to speed private label brands to the shelves of retailers. To avoid supplying a private label brand to a premium brand customer, Borden need only forgo further sales of its premium brand to that customer. It is, therefore, not unlikely that the Court's decision will foster a discrimination greater than that which it purports to eliminate, since retailers previously able to obtain the premium Borden brand but not a private label brand, may now find their access to the premium brand foreclosed as well.
In Automatic Canteen Co. v.  FTC, 346 U.S. 61, 63, this Court cautioned against construction of the Robinson-Patman Act in a manner that might "give rise to a price uniformity and rigidity in open conflict with the purposes of other antitrust legislation." Today that warning goes unheeded.  In the guise of protecting producers and purchasers from discriminatory price competition, the Court ignores legitimate market preferences and endows the Federal Trade Commission with authority to disrupt price relationships between products whose identity has been measured in the laboratory but rejected in the marketplace. I do not believe that any such power was conferred upon the Commission by Congress, and I would, therefore, affirm the judgment of the Court of Appeals.
