OPINION
MR. JUSTICE STEWART delivered the opinion of the Court.
The question presented in this case is whether taxpayers engaged in the livestock business who use an accrual method of accounting for animals raised for sale may employ a cash method of accounting for animals raised for breeding purposes, in order to take advantage of a federal income tax benefit available to cash-method taxpayers when breeding animals are sold.
The respondents are ranchers engaged in the business of raising livestock for sale.  As an important element of their business, the respondents maintain herds of livestock used for breeding purposes.  During the taxable years in question, the respondents sold animals from their breeding herds and reported the gains from the sales in accord with the accrual method of accounting they had elected for their overall ranching operations.  Subsequently, they filed claims with the Commissioner of Internal Revenue for partial tax refunds, on the ground that they were entitled to use the more advantageous cash method of accounting in calculating the gain from sales of their breeding livestock. The Commissioner rejected the claims, and the respondents brought suit to obtain the refunds.  Their claims were sustained by the District Court, 1 and the judgments were affirmed by the Court of Appeals for the Fifth Circuit. 2 We granted certiorari to resolve a conflict among the Circuits. 3 We now reverse the judgments of the Court of Appeals.
Section 1231 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1954, 26 U. S. C. § 1231 (1964 ed.),   provides that in certain circumstances gains from the sale of property used by a taxpayer in his trade or business may be treated for federal income tax purposes as long-term capital gains. Section 1231 (b)(3) makes the section specifically applicable to sales of livestock held for breeding purposes. 4 No challenge is raised here to the classification of the animals sold by the respondents as livestock held for breeding purposes within the meaning of that provision.  Our sole concern is with the measure of the respondents' capital gain.
Each of the respondents elected the "unit-livestock-price" variant of the accrual method of accounting for his overall ranching operation. 5 Under   that method, the respondents classified their livestock inventory by age and kind and assigned a standard unit price to the animals in each class.  Both breeding animals and animals raised for sale were lumped together in the respondents' inventories, and the same unit prices were employed for both types of livestock. By multiplying the number of animals in each class by the unit price for the class, the opening and closing inventory valuations were readily calculated for each taxable year.
The applicable Treasury Regulations grant a current deduction for the expenses incurred in raising livestock, without regard either for the purpose for which the animals are raised or for the method of accounting employed by the taxpayer. 6 For ranchers who have elected the cash method of accounting, the current deduction is of course taken against ordinary income in the year the expense is paid.  Since, as a result, the adjusted basis of the breeding animals at the time of sale is zero, the entire proceeds of the sales are reported as capital gains.
Because of the mechanics of the accrual method of accounting used by the respondents, however,  their current deductions for the expenses of raising their livestock were offset by the annual increments in the unit inventory values of the animals not sold during the taxable year. 7 The adjusted basis of the animals sold was therefore equal to the accumulated increments in their unit values, and only the proceeds of sale in excess of that basis were reported by the respondents as capital gain. 8 Although the respondents' capital gain was lower than the gain they would have reported had they used the cash method of accounting, the reduction was achieved at the cost of annulling the current deduction from ordinary income of the expenses of raising their breeding livestock. As a result, the respondents' overall tax on their gains from the sale of breeding livestock was larger than it would have been had they used the cash method of accounting with respect to those animals. 9 The Court of Appeals held in the present case that the respondents were not required to use the accrual method of accounting for their breeding livestock, and that they were therefore entitled to report the gains from the sales of those animals in accordance with the more advantageous cash method. 10 We think the Court of Appeals was in error.
The respondents' principal contention is that breeding livestock are simply not the type of asset that is properly includible in inventory. Just as manufacturers do not put capital equipment in inventory, so, respondents claim, they need not place their breeding livestock in inventory. Therefore, they say, the method of deferral of expenses worked for inventory-type assets by the mechanics of accrual accounting under Treas. Reg. (hereafter Reg.) § 1.61-4 (b) 11 is completely inapplicable to such livestock, because the animals should never have been placed in inventory in the first place.  The result of freeing breeding livestock from the accounting procedure of Reg. § 1.61-4 (b) would be to enable the respondents to obtain the benefits of the cash method, since the current deduction under Reg. § 1.162-12 would no longer be offset by the annual increments in the unit values of their breeding livestock.
Although the contention of the respondents is not without force, we believe that the evolution of the statute and regulations here in question demonstrates that the expenses of raising breeding livestock were intended to be deferred by accrual-method taxpayers.  That interpretation of the legislative and administrative history is fully consonant with accounting logic, and we therefore conclude that the Commissioner should prevail.
The general and long-standing rule for all taxpayers, whether they use the cash or accrual method of accounting, is that costs incurred in the acquisition, production, or development of capital assets, inventory, and other property used in the trade or business may not be currently deducted, but must be deferred until the year of sale, when the accumulated costs may be set off against the proceeds of the sale. 12 Under general principles of accounting, therefore, it would be expected that expenses incurred by ranchers in raising breeding livestock should be charged to capital account, even though the ranchers employed the cash method of accounting.
As early as 1919, however, in response to the specific need for a relatively more simplified method of farm accounting than was available even under the cash method as it then existed, the Secretary of the Treasury and the Commissioner of Internal Revenue promulgated Regulations expanding the cash method to authorize   a current deduction for expenses incurred by farmers and ranchers in raising crops and animals. 13 Although the question does not appear to have arisen, it is hardly likely that the Commissioner would have permitted accrual-method ranchers, for whom the new procedure was not designed, selectively to apply the simplified cash method to their breeding livestock or any other part of their herds. At the time these Regulations were issued, and for more than two decades thereafter, gains from the sale of breeding livestock were taxed as ordinary income. 14 Thus, the choice of accounting method affected only the timing of the deduction for the expenses of raising the animals, and no serious distortion of taxable income was introduced when ranchers elected the cash method for their breeding livestock. 15 Throughout   this period, no distinction appears to have been drawn between breeding and other livestock in the inventories maintained by ranchers using the more sophisticated accrual method of accounting. Indeed, since 1922, the Treasury Regulations have specifically contemplated that all livestock, whether raised for breeding or other purposes, were to be included in the inventory of accrual-method ranchers. 16
In 1942, however, Congress added § 117 (j) to the Internal Revenue Code of 1939. 17 That section, the progenitor of § 1231 of the 1954 Code, established capital gain treatment for the sale of "property used in the trade or business" of the taxpayer.  The general language of the 1942 amendment left the tax status of breeding livestock in doubt, and the ensuing nine years found the Commissioner and ranchers jockeying for position on the treatment of gains from the sale of such animals. 18 Congress resolved the controversy in 1951 by amending § 117 (j) to make clear that capital gain treatment was to be accorded to gains from the sale of livestock raised for breeding purposes. 19 Predictably, the amendment encouraged attempts by accrual-method ranchers to transfer to the cash method of accounting. The Commissioner, however, refused to permit the changes where it appeared that the sole motivation for the shift was to reap the capital gain windfall available to cash-method ranchers. 20
The issue raised by the respondents ultimately centers on the validity of Reg. § 1.471-6 (f), which requires that a "taxpayer who elects to use the 'unit-livestock-price method' must apply it to all livestock raised, whether for sale or for . . . breeding . . . purposes." That provision is neither arbitrary nor inconsistent with the revenue statute or with other regulations under the statute.  The unit-livestock-price method is soundly grounded in accepted principles of accounting. It has been specifically recognized by the tax laws as a valid approach to livestock accounting for more than 20 years. 21 Moreover, as the practice of the respondents indicates, the expenses incurred in the production and development of their livestock were essentially the same, whether the animals were raised for sale or for breeding purposes, and the unit-livestock-price method of accounting provided convenient and efficient annual estimates of those expenses.  There can thus be no question that the respondents' accounting method accurately reflected their income.
Were we concerned, therefore, solely with the applicability to breeding livestock of the unit-livestock-price method of accounting, we would be unable to characterize as arbitrary the Commissioner's refusal to permit the change the respondents seek. Congress has granted the Commissioner broad discretion in shepherding the accounting methods used by taxpayers, 22 and the uniform application of the unit-livestock-price method to the respondents' entire livestock operation is a reasonable exercise of the discretion rested by Congress in the Secretary and the Commissioner for the administration of the tax laws.  "It is not the province of the court to weigh and determine the relative merits of systems of accounting."  Brown v. Helvering, 291 U.S. 193, 204-205; Lucas v. American Code Co., 280 U.S. 445, 449; Automobile Club of Michigan v. Commissioner, 353 U.S. 180, 189-190; Commissioner v. Hansen, 360 U.S. 446, 467; Schlude v. Commissioner , 372 U.S. 128, 133-135.
The issue in the present case, however, is complicated by the substantial tax differential worked by the Treasury Regulations in favor of cash-method ranchers and against accrual-method ranchers when breeding livestock are sold. It is the position of the Commissioner that the Treasury Department is unable by administrative action to require cash-method ranchers to capitalize the expenses incurred in raising their breeding livestock. 23 The respondents contend that so long as the present dichotomy is maintained, they are entitled to participate in the benefits available under the cash method.
We need not determine whether in all cases the Commissioner may legitimately refuse to acquiesce in the transition by ranchers from the accrual method to the cash method of accounting. The Commissioner is not, of course, obliged to permit taxpayers to shift their accounting methods to accommodate every fluctuation in the revenue laws.   Helvering v. Wilshire Oil Co., 308 U.S. 90, 97; Commissioner v. South Texas Lumber Co., 333 U.S. 496. We may assume arguendo that particular legislative or administrative mutations in the tax laws may foster inequities so great between taxpayers similarly situated that the Commissioner could not legitimately reject a proposed change in accounting method unless the taxpayer had exercised a meaningful choice at the time he selected his contemporary method.  No such substantial inequity is presented here.  The respondents have not sought to embrace the cash method of accounting for their entire ranching operation.  To the contrary, they ask that they be permitted to subject only their breeding livestock to that method. Thus, they propose to retain the advantages of the accrual method for their livestock raised for sale.
It is clear that application of the cash method of accounting to sales of breeding livestock would substantially distort the economic picture of the respondents' ranching operations. 24 The sacrifice in accounting accuracy under the cash method represents an historical concession by the Secretary and the Commissioner to provide a unitary and expedient bookkeeping system for farmers and ranchers in need of a simplified accounting procedure.  A concomitant of the special dispensation that has been made available to cash-method ranchers is the favorable capital gain treatment that results whenever breeding livestock are sold.  The respondents, however, have demonstrated their intent to retain the accuracies of the unit-livestock-price method of accounting for animals they have raised for sale.  That method was itself introduced as a special concession to accrual-method ranchers, who were thereby enabled to avoid the difficulties of establishing the actual costs of raising their livestock. The respondents' desire to shift from the unit-livestock-price accrual method to the cash method for their breeding livestock is therefore divorced from the sole rationale for which each of those accounting methods was made available.  By selectively combining attributes of both methods, the respondents seek to fashion a hybrid system that would defeat the Commissioner's goal of providing a unitary accounting method for all taxpayers.  It clearly lay within the discretion of the Commissioner to reject such a hybrid system of accounting, and the Court of Appeals was in error in accepting the respondents' claims.  See Niles Bement Pond Co. v.  United States, 281 U.S. 357, 360;  Commissioner v. South Texas Lumber Co., 333 U.S. 496, 503-504;  Commissioner v. Hansen, 360 U.S. 446, 467;  Little v. Commissioner, 294 F.2d 661, 664 (C. A. 9th Cir.);  Carter v. Commissioner, 257 F.2d 595, 600 (C. A. 5th Cir.);  SoRelle v. Commissioner, 22 T. C. 459, 468-469.
The judgments are therefore reversed and the case is remanded to the Court of Appeals for the Fifth Circuit for further proceedings consistent with this opinion.
It is so ordered.
