OPINION
MR. JUSTICE FORTAS delivered the opinion of the Court.
These cases again bring before us problems arising from the program to merge the Pennsylvania and New York Central railroads and related problems proceeding from an Interstate Commerce Commission order that certain railroads be included in the Norfolk & Western (N & W) system.  The merger and the inclusion orders are part of a vast reorganization of rail transportation implementing the congressional policy of encouraging consolidation of the Nation's railroads into a "limited number of systems." Section 407 of the Transportation Act of 1920, amending ยง 5 (4) of the Interstate Commerce Act, 41 Stat. 481.  That policy has been with us, in one form or another, for more than 45 years.  The original idea of the 1920 Act, that the ICC would formulate a national plan of consolidation, proved unworkable.  It ran into heavy opposition from carriers and eventually had to be abandoned.  The 1920 Act was replaced by the Transportation Act of 1940, 54 Stat. 898.  Section 5 (2)(b) of the Interstate Commerce Act, as amended by the 1940 Act, 54 Stat. 906, 49 U. S. C. ยง 5 (2)(b), governed the Commission's examination of the present transactions. Under the 1940 Act, the initiation of merger and consolidation proceedings is left to the carriers themselves, and the Commission possesses no power to compel carriers to merge.  However, the congressional directive for a limited number of railroad systems has not been changed.  The only change has been in the means of achieving that goal.  See generally St. Joe Paper Co. v. Atlantic Coast Line R. Co., 347 U.S. 298, 315-321 (Appendix) (1954).
The Pennsylvania and the New York Central dominate rail transportation in the Northeast.  Their freight operations extend over some 20,000 miles of road in 14 States and Canada.  They are the two largest passenger carrying railroads in the United States.  In 1965 their combined operating revenue surpassed $ 1,500,000,000 and their combined net income was more than $ 75,000,000.  As independent lines, Pennsylvania and New York Central are, to some extent, in direct competition for rail traffic. There are 32 urban areas in which the two lines are in competition with each other and in which no other rail facilities are available.  The two roads operate at 160 common points or junctions and have a substantial amount of parallel trackage and routes. The proposed merger which the ICC has approved contemplates the unification of these vast roads and, as time goes on, the rationalization and elimination of some of the dual facilities and services in various areas and in various respects.  The merger will result in "enormous savings in transit time." It is estimated that in eight years, the savings in expense will amount to more than $ 80,000,000 annually.  See Baltimore & Ohio R. Co. v.  United States, 386 U.S. 372, 379-381 (1967).
At the same time the combination of these two roads will directly and adversely affect various smaller railroads in the service area because of the more effective competitive service that the combined system will offer and   because of the tendency of the combined roads, unless restrained by law, to favor their own system rather than to share traffic by interchange with nonsystem roads.
In brief, the antecedents of the issues before us are as follows: the Penn-Central merger has been under consideration by the parties and the Commission for about 10 years.  It was preceded by the vast N & W-Nickel Plate merger, which the Commission approved in 1964.  That transaction, which, it is anticipated, will eventually produce savings for the N & W system of over $ 29,000,000 annually, resulted in a large rail network covering some 7,000 miles of track and extending in the north from Des Moines and Kansas City to Buffalo and Pittsburgh, and in the southern tier from Cincinnati to Norfolk.  See Norfolk & Western Railway Co. and New York, Chicago & St. Louis Railroad Co. -- Merger, etc., 324 I. C. C. 1 (1964). The transaction was not presented to this Court for review.
In 1962 the parties to the Penn-Central transaction signed an agreement of merger including 36 rail carriers. The merger agreement did not include the New York, New Haven & Hartford Railroad (NH), although that road requested inclusion.
Following the merger agreement, the parties submitted the proposal to the Commission for approval under ยง 5 (2) of the Interstate Commerce Act. Exhaustive hearings were held in which States, municipalities, railroads, shippers, and public bodies -- some 200 parties in all -- took part.  The Commission's own staff participated extensively as did the Department of Justice acting for affected interests of the United States other than the regulatory functions of the Commission.  All participants, with relatively minor exceptions to which we shall later advert, agreed that the merger itself would be in the public interest. There were sharp differences, however, with respect to certain issues.  These primarily concerned the provisions to be made for three smaller lines affected by the proposed merger: the Erie-Lackawanna (E-L), Delaware & Hudson (D & H), and Boston & Maine (B & M) railroads. The Commission approved immediate consummation of the merger, subject to a reservation of jurisdiction to establish protective provisions for the three roads.   Pennsylvania Railroad Co. -- Merger -- New York Central Railroad Co., 327 I. C. C. 475 (1966). Its order was approved by a three-judge court in the Southern District of New York.  Erie-Lackawanna  R. Co. v.  United States, 259 F.Supp. 964 (1966).
At the last Term of Court, we reversed.  We noted that the Commission itself had found that the survival of the E-L, D & H, and B & M was essential to the public interest and that these roads would be so seriously affected by the competition of the merged company that they might not be able to survive unless adequate protective arrangements were made.  In these circumstances we concluded that the Commission should have determined the means to preserve the "protected roads," on both an interim and a permanent basis, before permitting consummation of the merger. We expressly stated that we were not passing upon the validity of the merger or the "peripheral points posed by the various parties." Baltimore & Ohio R. Co. v.  United States, supra, at 378.
The Court noted that in 1965 each of the three "protected roads" had filed applications for inclusion in the N & W system, and that these were pending before the Commission in the N & W-Nickel Plate merger case pursuant to the Commission's continuing jurisdiction over those proceedings.  We further noted that the Commission, pursuant to its power under ยง 5 of the Act to require as a condition of approval of a merger that other railroads be included in the merger, had obligated the merged N & W system to include the E-L, D & H,   and B & M if the Commission should so direct, upon such equitable terms as the Commission might prescribe.  We stated that if the three protected roads were ordered to be included in the N & W system, "such action would provide the solution to the problem of the necessary and indispensable protection to the three railroads that the Commission found prerequisite to the merger."  386 U.S., at 390.
In accordance with our remand of the Penn-Central merger case, the Commission conducted further proceedings in the N & W case on the pending petitions of the three roads.  On June 9, 1967, it issued its decision to the effect that "inclusion of the petitioners in the N & W system is preferable to their inclusion in the Penn-Central," and ordered N & W to acquire the stock of the three roads on prescribed terms.   Norfolk & Western Railway Co. and New York, Chicago & St. Louis Railroad Co. -- Merger, etc., 330 I. C. C. 780, 796 (1967). At the same time, in the remanded Penn-Central merger proceedings, the Commission reconsidered certain protective conditions it had previously devised to aid the three roads, imposed amended protective conditions to operate in the interim between consummation of the Penn-Central merger and the protected lines' inclusion in a major railroad system, 1 and again authorized the immediate consummation of the Penn-Central merger.  Pennsylvania Railroad Company -- Merger -- New York Central Railroad Company, 330 I. C. C. 328 (1967).
On July 3, 1967, on application of parties opposing the Commission's merger order, the three-judge District Court for the Southern District of New York enjoined implementation of that order pending the decision of that court on review.  Actions were also filed by several   parties in the same court to set aside the order of the Commission requiring the N & W to include the three protected roads in its system.  Suits challenging both the merger and inclusion orders were instituted in other courts, but were stayed so as to permit orderly disposition of the basic issues in the Southern District of New York. 2 After expedited proceedings in that court, all complaints attacking the merger and the inclusion orders were dismissed 3 and the decisions of the Interstate Commerce Commission in both the merger and the inclusion proceedings were sustained.   279 F.Supp. 316. Various of the parties then sought relief in this Court.  Because of the importance and urgency of the matter, we granted a further stay of the merger order, consolidated all proceedings that were before us relating to the merger and inclusion decisions, and expedited consideration thereof.  See post, p. 946.
We have before us nine appeals, on behalf of 17 parties, from the decision of the District Court.  Also docketed are two related petitions for mandamus or certiorari to the District Court for the Middle District of Pennsylvania, and one appeal from that court.
The particular contentions urged upon us, in this multiplicity of proceedings, are many and varied.  In general, however, the issues may be articulated as follows: Has the mandate of this Court been fulfilled, in that appropriate provision has now been made for the three smaller roads?  Are the terms of the order providing for inclusion of the protected roads in the N & W system fair and equitable and in the public interest? Did the District Court err in refusing to enjoin consummation of the Penn-Central merger? Has adequate provision been made for resolution of the "peripheral" issues presented by the parties, which would not be foreclosed by a decision authorizing the consummation of the merger and inclusion of the protected roads in the N & W?
