OPINION
MR. JUSTICE DOUGLAS delivered the opinion of the Court.
Appellant sued on behalf of five illegitimate children to recover, under a Louisiana statute 1 (La. Civ. Code Ann. Art. 2315 (Supp. 1967)) for two kinds of damages as a result of the wrongful death of their mother: (1) the damages to them for the loss of their mother; and (2) those based on the survival of a cause of action which the mother had at the time of her death for pain and suffering.  Appellees 2 are the doctor who treated her and the insurance company.
We assume in the present state of the pleadings that the mother, Louise Levy, gave birth to these five illegitimate children and that they lived with her; that she treated them as a parent would treat any other child; that she worked as a domestic servant to support them, taking them to church every Sunday and enrolling them, at her own expense, in a parochial school.  The Louisiana District Court dismissed the suit.  The Court of Appeal affirmed, holding that "child" in Article 2315 means "legitimate child," the denial to illegitimate children of "the right to recover" being "based on morals and general welfare because it discourages bringing children into the world out of wedlock."  192 So. 2d 193, 195. The Supreme Court of Louisiana denied certiorari.  250 La. 25, 193 So. 2d 530.
The case is here on appeal (28 U. S. C. ยง 1257 (2)); and we noted probable jurisdiction,  389 U.S. 925, the statute as construed having been sustained against challenge under both the Due Process and Equal Protection Clauses of the Fourteenth Amendment.
We start from the premise that illegitimate children are not "nonpersons." They are humans, live, and have their being. 3  They are clearly "persons" within the meaning of the Equal Protection Clause of the Fourteenth Amendment. 4
While a State has broad power when it comes to making classifications (  Ferguson v. Skrupa, 372 U.S. 726, 732), it may not draw a line which constitutes an invidious discrimination against a particular class.  See  Skinner v. Oklahoma, 316 U.S. 535, 541-542. Though the test has been variously stated, the end result is whether the line drawn is a rational one.  See  Morey v. Doud, 354 U.S. 457, 465-466.
In applying the Equal Protection Clause to social and economic legislation, we give great latitude to the legislature in making classifications.  Williamson v. Lee Optical Co., 348 U.S. 483, 489;  Morey v. Doud, supra, at 465-466. Even so, would a corporation, which is a "person," for certain purposes, within the meaning of the Equal Protection Clause (Pembina Mining Co. v.  Pennsylvania, 125 U.S. 181, 188) be required to forgo recovery for wrongs done its interests because its incorporators were all bastards? However that might be, we have been extremely sensitive when it comes to basic civil rights (  Skinner v. Oklahoma, supra, at 541;  Harper v. Virginia Board of Elections, 383 U.S. 663, 669-670) and have not hesitated to strike down an invidious classification even though it had history and tradition on its side. (  Brown v. Board of Education, 347 U.S. 483;  Harper v. Virginia Board of Elections, supra, at 669.) The rights asserted here involve the intimate, familial relationship between a child and his own mother.  When the child's claim of damage for loss of his mother is in issue, why, in terms of "equal protection," should the tortfeasors go free merely because the child is illegitimate? Why should the illegitimate child be denied rights merely because of his birth out of wedlock? He certainly is subject to all the responsibilities of a citizen, including the payment of taxes and conscription under the Selective Service Act.  How under our constitutional regime can he be denied correlative rights which other citizens enjoy?
Legitimacy or illegitimacy of birth has no relation to the nature of the wrong allegedly inflicted on the mother.  These children, though illegitimate, were dependent on her; she cared for them and nurtured them; they were indeed hers in the biological and in the spiritual sense; in her death they suffered wrong in the sense that any dependent would. 5
We conclude that   it is invidious to discriminate against them when no action, conduct, or demeanor of theirs 6 is possibly relevant to the harm that was done the mother. 7
Reversed.
