OPINION
MR. JUSTICE STEWART delivered the opinion of the Court.
The petitioner, Fortnightly Corporation, owns and operates community antenna television (CATV) systems in Clarksburg and Fairmont, West Virginia. 1 There were no local television broadcasting stations in that immediate area until 1957.  Now there are two, but, because of hilly terrain, most residents of the area cannot receive the broadcasts of any additional stations by ordinary rooftop antennas. Some of the residents have joined in   erecting larger cooperative antennas in order to receive more distant stations, but a majority of the householders in both communities have solved the problem by becoming customers of the petitioner's CATV service. 2
The petitioner's systems consist of antennas located on hills above each city, with connecting coaxial cables, strung on utility poles, to carry the signals received by the antennas to the home television sets of individual subscribers. The systems contain equipment to amplify and modulate the signals received, and to convert them to different frequencies, in order to transmit the signals efficiently while maintaining and improving their strength.  3
During 1960, when this proceeding began, the petitioner's systems provided customers with signals of five television broadcasting stations, three located in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania; one in Steubenville, Ohio; and one in Wheeling, West Virginia. 4 The distance between those cities and Clarksburg and Fairmont ranges from 52 to 82 miles. 5 The systems carried all the programming of each of the five stations, and a customer could choose any of the five programs he wished to view by simply turning the knob on his own television set.  The petitioner neither edited the programs received nor originated any programs of its own. 6 The petitioner's customers were charged a flat monthly rate regardless of the amount of time that their television sets were in use. 7
The respondent, United Artists Television, Inc., holds copyrights on several motion pictures.  During the period in suit, the respondent (or its predecessor) granted various licenses to each of the five television stations in question to broadcast certain of these copyrighted motion pictures.  Broadcasts made under these licenses were received by the petitioner's Clarksburg and Fairmont CATV systems and carried to its customers. At no time did the petitioner (or its predecessors) obtain a license under the copyrights from the respondent or from any of the five television stations. The licenses granted by the respondent to the five stations did not authorize carriage of the broadcasts by CATV systems, and in several instances the licenses specifically prohibited such carriage.
The respondent sued the petitioner for copyright infringement in a federal court, asking damages and injunctive relief.  The issue of infringement was separately tried, and the court ruled in favor of the respondent.   255 F.Supp. 177. On interlocutory appeal under 28 U. S. C. § 1292 (b), the Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit affirmed.   377 F.2d 872. We granted certiorari,  389 U.S. 969, to consider an important question under the Copyright Act of 1909, 35 Stat. 1075, as amended, 17 U. S. C. § 1 et seq.
The Copyright Act does not give a copyright holder control over all uses of his copyrighted work. 8 Instead,   § 1 of the Act enumerates several "rights" that are made "exclusive" to the holder of the copyright. 9 If a person, without authorization from the copyright holder, puts a copyrighted work to a use within the scope of one of these "exclusive rights," he infringes the copyright.  If he puts the work to a use not enumerated in § 1, he does not infringe. 10 The respondent's contention is that the petitioner's CATV systems infringed the respondent's § 1 (c) exclusive right to "perform . . . in public for profit"   (nondramatic literary works) 11 and its § 1 (d) exclusive right to "perform . . . publicly" (dramatic works). 12 The petitioner maintains that its CATV systems did not "perform" the copyrighted works at all. 13
At the outset it is clear that the petitioner's systems did not "perform" the respondent's copyrighted works in any conventional sense of that term, 14 or in any manner envisaged by the Congress that enacted the law in 1909. 15 But our inquiry cannot be limited to ordinary meaning and legislative history, for this is a statute that was drafted long before the development of the electronic phenomena with which we deal here.  16 In 1909 radio itself was in its infancy, and television had not been invented.  We must read the statutory language of 60 years ago in the light of drastic technological change. 17
The Court of Appeals thought that the controlling question in deciding whether the petitioner's CATV systems "performed" the copyrighted works was: "How much did the  do to bring about the viewing and hearing of a copyrighted work?"  377 F.2d, at 877. Applying this test, the court found that the petitioner did "perform" the programs carried by its systems. 18 But    mere quantitative   contribution cannot be the proper test to determine copyright liability in the context of television broadcasting. If it were, many people who make large contributions to television viewing might find themselves liable for copyright infringement -- not only the apartment house owner who erects a common antenna for his tenants, but the shopkeeper who sells or rents television sets, and, indeed, every television set manufacturer.  Rather, resolution of the issue before us depends upon a determination of the function that CATV plays in the total process of television broadcasting and reception.
Television viewing results from combined activity by broadcasters and viewers. Both play active and indispensable roles in the process; neither is wholly passive.  The broadcaster selects and procures the program to be viewed.  He may produce it himself, whether "live" or with film or tape, or he may obtain it from a network or some other source.  He then converts the visible images and audible sounds of the program into electronic signals, 19 and broadcasts the signals at radio frequency for public reception. 20 Members of the public, by means of television sets and antennas that they themselves provide, receive the broadcaster's signals and reconvert them into the visible images and audible sounds of the program.  The effective range of the broadcast is determined by the combined contribution of the equipment employed by the broadcaster and that supplied by the viewer. 21
The television broadcaster in one sense does less than the exhibitor of a motion picture or stage play; he supplies his audience not with visible images but only with electronic signals. The viewer conversely does more than a member of a theater audience; he provides the equipment to convert electronic signals into audible sound and visible images.  Despite these deviations from the conventional situation contemplated by the framers of the Copyright Act, 22 broadcasters have been judicially treated as exhibitors, and viewers as members of a theater audience. Broadcasters perform. 23 Viewers do not perform. 24 Thus, while both broadcaster and viewer play crucial roles in the total television process, a line is drawn between them.  One is treated as active performer; the other, as passive beneficiary.
When CATV is considered in this framework, we conclude that it falls on the viewer's side of the line. 25 Essentially, a CATV system no more than enhances the viewer's capacity to receive the broadcaster's signals; it provides a well-located antenna with an efficient connection to the viewer's television set. 26 It is true that a CATV system plays an "active" role in making reception possible in a given area, but so do ordinary television sets and antennas. CATV equipment is powerful and sophisticated, but the basic function the equipment serves is little different from that served by the equipment generally furnished by a television viewer. 27 If an individual erected an antenna on a hill, strung a cable to his house, and installed the necessary amplifying equipment, he would not be "performing" the programs he received on his television set.  The result would be no different if several people combined to erect a cooperative antenna for the same purpose.  The only difference in the case of CATV is that the antenna system is erected and owned not by its users but by an entrepreneur.
The function of CATV systems has little in common with the function of broadcasters. 28 CATV systems do not in fact broadcast or rebroadcast. 29 Broadcasters select the programs to be viewed; CATV   systems simply carry, without editing, whatever programs they receive. Broadcasters procure programs and propagate them to the public; CATV systems receive programs that have been released to the public and carry them by private channels to additional viewers. We hold that CATV operators, like viewers and unlike broadcasters, do not perform the programs that they receive and carry. 30
We have been invited by the Solicitor General in an amicus curiae brief to render a compromise decision in this case that would, it is said, accommodate various competing considerations of copyright, communications, and antitrust policy. 31 We decline the invitation. 32 That job is for Congress. 33 We take the Copyright Act of 1909 as we find it.  With due regard to changing technology, we hold that the petitioner did not under that   law "perform" the respondent's copyrighted works.
The judgment of the Court of Appeals is
Reversed.
MR. JUSTICE DOUGLAS and MR. JUSTICE MARSHALL took no part in the consideration or decision of this case.
MR. JUSTICE HARLAN took no part in the decision of this case.
<dissent author="FORTAS" text="TRUE">
DISSENT BY: FORTAS
MR. JUSTICE FORTAS, dissenting.
This case calls not for the judgment of Solomon but for the dexterity of Houdini.  We are here asked to consider whether and how a technical, complex, and specific Act of Congress, the Copyright Act, which was enacted in 1909, applies to one of the recent products of scientific and promotional genius, CATV.  The operations of CATV systems are based upon the use of other people's property.  The issue here is whether, for this use, the owner of copyrighted material should be compensated.  From a technical standpoint the question -- or at least one important question -- is whether the use constitutes a "performance" of the copyrighted material within the meaning of § 1 (c) of the Copyright Act, 17 U. S. C. § 1 (c).  But it is an understatement to say that the Copyright Act, including the concept of a "performance," was not created with the development of CATV in mind.  The novelty of the use, incident to the novelty of the new technology, results in a baffling problem.  Applying the normal jurisprudential tools -- the words of the Act, legislative history, and precedent -- to the facts of the case is like trying to repair a television set with a mallet.  And no aid may be derived from the recent attempts of Congress to formulate special copyright rules for CATV -- for Congress has vacillated in its approach. 1
At the same time, the implications of any decision we may reach as to the copyright liability of CATV are very great.  On the one hand, it is darkly predicted that the imposition of full liability upon all CATV operations could result in the demise of this new, important instrument of mass communications; or in its becoming a tool of the powerful networks which hold a substantial number of copyrights on materials used in the television industry.  On the other hand, it is foreseen that a decision to the effect that CATV systems never infringe the copyrights of the programs they carry would permit such systems to overpower local broadcasting stations which must pay, directly or indirectly, for copyright licenses and with which CATV is in increasing competition. 2
The vastness of the competing considerations, the complexity of any conceivable equitable solution to the problems posed, and the obvious   desirability of ultimately leaving the solution to Congress induced the Solicitor General, in a memorandum filed prior to oral argument in this case, to recommend "that the Court should stay its hand because, in our view, the matter is not susceptible of definitive resolution in judicial proceedings and plenary consideration here is likely to delay and prejudice the ultimate legislative solution."
That is a splendid thought, but unhappily it will not do.  I agree with the majority that we must pass on the instant case.  An important legal issue is involved.  Important economic values are at stake, and it would be hazardous to assume that Congress will act promptly, comprehensively, and retroactively.  But the fact that the Copyright Act was written in a different day, for different factual situations, should lead us to tread cautiously here.  Our major object, I suggest, should be to do as little damage as possible to traditional copyright principles and to business relationships, until the Congress legislates and relieves the embarrassment which we and the interested parties face.
The opinion of the majority, in my judgment, does not heed this admonition.  In an attempt to foster the development of CATV, the Court today abandons the   teachings of precedent, including a precedent of this Court (see  Buck v. Jewell-LaSalle Realty Corp., 283 U.S. 191 (1931);  Society of European Stage Authors and Composers v. New York Hotel Statler Co., 19 F.Supp. 1 (1937)), as to the meaning of the term "perform" in the Copyright Act. It is not our general practice to reverse ourselves, without compelling reasons to do so, on matters of statutory construction, especially on a construction of many years' standing under which an entire industry has operated. 3 Yet today's decision might not be objectionable, if the majority replaced what it considers an outmoded interpretation of the term "perform" with a new, equally clear, and workable interpretation.  It does not, however, do this.  It removes from copyright law an interpretation which, though perhaps not altogether satisfactory as an analytical matter, 4 has at least been settled for nearly 40 years; and it substitutes for that discarded interpretation a rule which I do not believe is an intelligible guide for the construction of the Copyright Act. Moreover, the new rule may well have disruptive consequences outside the area of CATV.
The approach manifested in the opinion of the Court is disarmingly simple.  The Court merely identifies two groups in the general field of television, one of which it believes may clearly be liable, and the other clearly not liable, for copyright infringement on a "performance" theory: "Broadcasters perform.  Viewers do not perform." From this premise, the Court goes on to hold that CATV "falls on the viewer's side of the line.  Essentially, a CATV system no more than enhances the viewer's capacity to receive the broadcaster's signals; it provides a well-located antenna with an efficient connection to the viewer's set. . . .  CATV equipment is powerful and sophisticated, but the basic function the equipment serves is little different from that served by the equipment generally furnished by a television viewer." Ante, at 398-399.
The decision in Buck v. Jewell-LaSalle, must, the Court says today, "be understood as limited to its own facts." Ante, at 397, n. 18.  In Buck, the Court, speaking unanimously through Mr. Justice Brandeis, held that a hotel which received a broadcast on a master radio set and piped the broadcast to all public and private rooms of the hotel had "performed" the material that had been broadcast. As I understand the case, the holding was that the use of mechanical equipment to extend a broadcast to a significantly wider public than the broadcast would otherwise enjoy constitutes a "performance" of the material originally broadcast. I believe this decision stands squarely in the path of the route which the majority today traverses.  If a CATV system performs a function "little different from that served by the equipment generally furnished by a television viewer," and if that is to be the test, then it seems to me that a master radio set attached by wire to numerous other sets in various rooms of a hotel cannot be distinguished. 5
The vague "functional" test of the meaning of the term "perform" is, moreover, unsatisfactory.  Just as a CATV system performs (on the majority's analysis) the same function as the antenna of the individual viewer, so a television camera recording a live drama performs the same function as the eye of a spectator who is present in the theater.  Both the CATV and the television camera "receive programs that have been released to the public and carry them by private channels to additional viewers." Ante, at 400.  Moreover, the Court has indulged in an oversimplification of the "function" of CATV.  It may be, indeed, that insofar as CATV operations are limited to the geographical area which the licensed broadcaster (whose signals the CATV has picked up and carried) has the power to cover, a CATV is little more than a "cooperative antenna" employed in order to ameliorate the image on television screens at home or to bring the image to homes which, because of obstacles other than mere distance, could not receive them.  But such a description will not suffice for the case in which a CATV has picked up the signals of a licensed broadcaster and carried them beyond the area -- however that area be defined -- which the broadcaster normally serves.  In such a case the CATV is performing a function different from a simple antenna for, by hypothesis, the antenna could not pick up the signals of the licensed broadcaster and enable CATV patrons to receive them in their homes.
Buck v. Jewell-LaSalle may not be an altogether ideal gloss on the word "perform," but it has at least the merit of being settled law.  I would not overrule that decision in order to take care of this case or the needs of CATV.  This Court may be wrong.  The task of caring for CATV is one for the Congress.  Our ax, being a rule of law, must cut straight, sharp, and deep; and perhaps this is a situation that calls for the compromise of theory and for the architectural improvisation which only legislation can accomplish.
I see no alternative to following Buck and to holding that a CATV system does "perform" the material it picks up and carries.  I would, accordingly, affirm the decision below.
