OPINION
We noted probable jurisdiction in this case to decide whether ยง 52-542 of the Connecticut General Statutes 1 requiring a bond for the protection of his landlord from a tenant who wished to appeal from a judgment in a summary eviction proceeding, offends either the Due Process or Equal Protection Clause of the Fourteenth Amendment if applied to foreclose appellate review for those too poor to post the bond, 394 U.S. 957 (1969).
Because of an ambiguity in the record concerning the underlying reason these appellants were denied an opportunity to appeal the trial court's judgment ordering that they be evicted, we now conclude that this appeal should be dismissed, DeBacker v. Brainard, 396 U.S. 28 (1969); Rescue Army v. Municipal Court, 331 U.S. 549 (1947).
After unsuccessfully litigating in the trial court a summary eviction proceeding begun by their landlords, appellants moved in the trial court for a waiver of the bond requirement so that they might appeal.  The trial court, apparently of the view that it had the power to waive the statutory bond requirement in an appropriate case, denied appellants' motion on a finding that "this appeal is being taken for the purpose of delay." App. 23.  Appellants sought review of the trial court's denial of their motion in the Connecticut Circuit Court, and that court denied review and dismissed appellants' appeal. It is unclear from that court's opinion, however, whether it thought the bond requirement of ยง 52-542 left no room for a waiver, 2 or instead based its refusal to hear appellants' appeal in part on the trial court's finding -- cited in the Circuit Court's opinion 3 -- that the appeal before it was taken only for purpose of delay. 5 Conn. Cir. 282, 250 A. 2d 527 (1968). Appellants' petition to the Supreme Court of Connecticut to certify the case for review was declined.
In these circumstances, we deem it inappropriate for this Court to decide the   constitutional issue tendered by appellants.
Dismissed.
MR. JUSTICE BLACKMUN took no part in the consideration or decision of this case.
DISSENT BY: DOUGLAS
MR. JUSTICE DOUGLAS, with whom MR. JUSTICE MARSHALL joins, dissenting.
This was a summary procedure brought by a landlord 1 to obtain possession from his tenants for nonpayment of rent. The trial court found for the landlord and the tenants appealed.
Connecticut law requires one taking an appeal in such an action to post a bond with surety. The tenants showed they were financially unable to post the bond and claimed that to require a bond with surety to obtain an appeal would under those circumstances be a denial of equal protection.  The trial court refused to waive the requirement for a bond with surety saying that "the appeal is being taken for the purpose of delay."
The Circuit Court affirmed.  The Appellate Division ordered the termination of a stay of execution. 5 Conn. Cir. 282, 250 A. 2d 527. The Supreme Court denied certification.
I would reverse this judgment.  A rich tenant, whatever his motives for appeal, would obtain appellate review.  These tenants, because of their poverty, obtain none.  I can imagine no clearer violation of the requirement of equal protection unless it be Griffin v. Illinois, 351 U.S. 12. Whether the case is criminal or civil, wealth, like race, is a suspect criterion for classification of those who have rights and those who do not.  Harper v. Virginia Bd. of Elections, 383 U.S. 663; Lee v. Habib, 137 U. S. App. D. C. 403, 424 F.2d 891. 2
What the merits of the tenants' appeal may be is not for us to say.  But the appeal raised questions not easily answered.  The terms of the lease stated that it could be terminated by not less than 30 days' notice, while apparently no more than five days' notice was given.  A housing authority that is federally assisted has the right by 42 U. S. C. ยง 1404a (1964 ed., Supp. V), "to maintain an action or proceeding to recover possession of any housing accommodations operated by it where such action is authorized by the statute or regulations under which such housing accommodations are administered." There is not a word in appellee's argument that indicates that the federal regulations permit eviction on five days' notice where the lease requires 30 days' notice.
The case has been argued as if appellants are "cheap skates" seeking to get   something for nothing.  That simply is not true, for the record shows:
"Mrs. Faulkner: Your Honor, may I urge upon you that if you grant our motion to have the defendants deposit the rent in court the landlord will not be hurt any further by delay in this proceedings.  He will be protected because the monthly rent will be deposited.  If he is successful on appeal he will be able to get the rent.
"The Court: Do you suggest, if that should be the conclusion, that the clerk could issue an execution upon failure to pay?
"Mrs. Faulkner: Yes.
"The Court: In other words, you will be willing to stipulate on behalf of your clients that if the rent were not paid that the clerk would, may be empowered forthwith to issue an execution?
"Mrs. Faulkner: Yes, Your Honor.
"The Court: That appeal to you all right?
"Mr. Philbin: Frankly it doesn't.  During this period of time, it could take a considerable period of time, even if the tenant pays the fund into the clerk's office, they are not available to the plaintiff and we are still as a practical matter losing the rents during that period of time. Eventually if we prevail and get this money this would be an extended period of time." App. 19-20.
The State of Connecticut represents that its summary eviction statute is based on an English Act of 1737, 11 Geo. 2, c. 19; and with all respect, the decisions below reflect an 18th century lawyer's approach to the task of protecting a landed interest.  Every appeal of course entails delay; and in a sense all appeals are antithetical to the spirit of summary eviction. But we live today under a different regime.  Unlike 1737, appellate courts are no longer closed to the poor.  Eviction laws emphasize speed for the benefit of landlords. Equal protection often necessitates an opportunity for the poor as well as the affluent to be heard.  I disagree with the Court that the issue is not squarely presented in this case. 3 I would reverse this judgment.
