OPINION
MR. JUSTICE HARLAN delivered the opinion of the Court.
Petitioner Whiteley, in 1965, was convicted in the District Court for the Second Judicial District of the State of Wyoming on charges of breaking and entering and being an habitual criminal. 1 Both at his arraignment and at trial Whiteley challenged the constitutionality of the use of evidence seized during a search incident to an arrest which he claimed was illegal.  The trial court overruled petitioner's motion to suppress, and on appeal the Supreme Court of Wyoming affirmed.   Whiteley v. State, 418 P. 2d 164 (1966). This proceeding commenced with a petition for habeas corpus in the United States District Court for the District of Wyoming, which was denied on November 25, 1968. 2  Whiteley v. Wyoming, 293 F.Supp. 381. On appeal, the United States Court of Appeals for   the Tenth Circuit affirmed.   Whiteley v. Meacham, 416 F.2d 36 (1969). We granted certiorari, limiting the writ to the issue of the constitutionality of the arrest and ensuing search and seizure.  397 U.S. 1062 (1970). 3 We reverse the judgment of the Tenth Circuit for the reasons stated herein.
I
The circumstances surrounding petitioner's arrest and the incidental search and seizure, as stated by the Wyoming Supreme Court,  418 P. 2d 164, 165-166, are as follows: 4
"On November 23, 1964, certain business establishments in Saratoga were broken into, including the Rustic Bar and Shively's Hardware, the offenses being investigated by the Carbon County Sheriff  who, acting on a tip, the next day signed a complaint charging defendant and another with breaking and entering the building identified as the Rustic Bar.  This complaint was made before a justice of the peace at approximately 11:30 a. m. on the 24th, and a warrant issued.  After the investigation, the sheriff put out a state item on the radio to pick up two suspects of the breaking and entering, defendant and another.  The message went to the network at Casper and was transmitted over the State, received by the Albany County Sheriff's Office and communicated to the Laramie Police Department, the message giving names and descriptions of the two persons and advising the type of car probably being driven and the amount of money taken, including certain old coins with the dates.  Late at night on November 24, a Laramie patrolman, in reliance on the information in the radio item, arrested the defendant and his companion. At the time, the patrolman had no warrant for defendant's arrest nor search warrant. The officer together with a deputy sheriff, who had come up in the meantime, searched the car and removed a number of items introduced in evidence, including tools and old coins, identified at the trial as taken from Shively's Hardware. . . ."
Sheriff Ogburn's complaint, which provided the basis for the arrest warrant issued by the justice of the peace, is as follows:
"I, C. W. Ogburn, do solemnly swear that on or about the 23 day of November, A. D. 1964, in the County of Carbon and State of Wyoming, the said Harold Whiteley and Jack Daley, defendants did then and there unlawfully break and enter a locked and sealed building ." App. 28.
A state item 881, the bulletin which Sheriff Ogburn put out on the radio and which led to petitioner's arrest and search by the Laramie patrolman, is as follows:
"P & H for B & E Saratoga, early A. M. 11-24-64.  Subj. #1.  Jack Daley, WMA, 38, D. O. B. 2-29-, 5'10', 175, med. build, med. comp., blonde and blue. Tat. left shoulder: 'Love Me or Leave Me.' #2.  Harold Whitley, WMA, 43,   D. O. B. 6-22-21, 5' 11', 180, med. build, fair comp. brown eyes. Tat. on right arm 'Bird.' Poss. driving 1953 or 1954 Buick, light green bottom, dark top.  Wyo. lic. 2-bal. unknown.  Taken: $ 281.71 in small change, numerous old coins ranging from .5 cent pieces to silver dollars, dated from 1853 to 1908.  Warrant issues, will extradite.  Special attention Denver. . . ." App. 31. 5
II
The decisions of this Court concerning   Fourth Amendment probable-cause requirements before a warrant for either arrest or search can issue require that the judicial officer issuing such a warrant be supplied with sufficient information to support an independent judgment that probable cause exists for the warrant. 6 Spinelli v. United States, 393 U.S. 410 (1969); United States v. Ventresca, 380 U.S. 102 (1965); Aguilar v. Texas, 378 U.S. 108 (1964); Rugendorf v. United States, 376 U.S. 528 (1964); Jones v. United States, 362 U.S. 257 (1960); Giordenello v. United States, 357 U.S. 480 (1958). In the instant case -- so far as the record stipulated to by the parties   reveals 7 -- the sole support for the arrest warrant issued at Sheriff Ogburn's request was the complaint reproduced above. 8 That complaint consists of nothing more than the complainant's conclusion that the individuals named therein perpetrated the offense described in the complaint.  The actual basis for Sheriff Ogburn's conclusion was an informer's tip, but that fact, as well as every other operative fact, is omitted from the complaint.  Under the cases just cited, that document alone could not support the independent judgment of a disinterested magistrate.
The State, 9 however, contends that regardless of the sufficiency of the complaint to support the arrest warrant, the Laramie police officer who actually made the arrest possessed sufficient factual information to support a finding of probable cause for arrest without a warrant.  In support of this proposition, the State argues that a reviewing court should employ less stringent standards for reviewing a police officer's assessment of probable cause as a prelude to a warrantless arrest than the court would employ in reviewing a magistrate's assessment as a prelude to issuing an arrest or search warrant. 10 That proposition has been consistently rejected by this Court.   United States v. Ventresca, 380 U.S., at 105-109;  Aguilar v. Texas, 378 U.S., at 110-111;  Jones v. United States, 362 U.S., at 270-271. And the reason for its rejection is both fundamental and obvious: less stringent standards for reviewing the officer's discretion in effecting a warrantless arrest and search would discourage resort to the procedures for obtaining a warrant.  Thus the standards applicable to the factual basis supporting the officer's probable-cause assessment at the time of the challenged arrest and search are at least as stringent as the standards applied with respect to the magistrate's assessment.  See  McCray v. Illinois, 386 U.S. 300, 304-305 (1967).
Applying those standards to the instant case, the information possessed by the Laramie police officer at the time of arrest and search consisted of: (1) the data contained in state bulletin 881, reproduced supra; (2) the knowledge, obtained by personal observation, that two men were driving a car matching the car described in the radio bulletin; (3) the knowledge, possessed by one of the arresting officers, that one of the people in the car was Jack Daley, App. 71; (4) the knowledge, acquired by personal observation, that the other individual in the car fitted the description of Whiteley contained in state bulletin 881; and (5) the knowledge, acquired by the officer after stopping Whiteley, that he had given a false name. 11
This Court has held that   where the initial impetus for an arrest is an informer's tip, information gathered by the arresting officers can be used to sustain a finding of probable cause for an arrest that could not adequately be supported by the tip alone.   Draper v. United States, 358 U.S. 307 (1959).See  Spinelli v. United States, 393 U.S. 410 (1969). But the additional information acquired by the arresting officers must in some sense be corroborative of the informer's tip that the arrestees committed the felony or, as in Draper itself, were in the process of committing the felony.  See the opinions of the Court and that of MR. JUSTICE WHITE concurring in  Spinelli v. United States, supra, and p. 423. In the present case, the very most the additional information tended to establish is that either Sheriff Ogburn, or his informant, or both of them, knew Daley and Whiteley and the kind of car they drove; the record is devoid of any information at any stage of the proceeding from the time of the burglary to the event of the arrest and search that would support either the reliability of the informant or the informant's conclusion that these men were connected with the crime. Spinelli v. United States, supra;   McCray v. Illinois, supra; Aguilar v. Texas, supra.
The State, however, offers one further argument in support of the legality of the arrest and search: the Laramie police relied on the radio bulletin in making the arrest, and not on Sheriff Ogburn's unnamed informant. Clearly, it is said, they had probable cause for believing that the passengers in the car were the men described in the bulletin, and, in acting on the bulletin, they reasonably assumed that whoever authorized the bulletin had probable cause to direct Whiteley's and Daley's arrest. To prevent arresting officers from acting on the assumption that fellow officers who call upon them to make an arrest have probable cause for believing the arrestees are perpetrators of a crime would, it is argued, unduly hamper law enforcement.
We do not, of course, question that the Laramie police were entitled to act on the strength of the radio bulletin.   Certainly police officers called upon to aid other officers in executing arrest warrants are entitled to assume that the officers requesting aid offered the magistrate the information requisite to support an independent judicial assessment of probable cause. Where, however, the contrary turns out to be true, an otherwise illegal arrest cannot be insulated from challenge by the decision of the instigating officer to rely on fellow officers to make the arrest.
In sum, the complaint on which the warrant issued here clearly could not support a finding of probable cause by the issuing magistrate. The arresting officer was not himself possessed of any factual data tending to corroborate the informer's tip that Daley and Whiteley committed the crime. 12 Therefore, petitioner's arrest violated   his constitutional rights under the Fourth and Fourteenth Amendments; the evidence secured as an incident thereto should have been excluded from his trial.   Mapp v. Ohio, 367 U.S. 643 (1961).
III
There remains the question as to the proper disposition of this case.  The State urges us to remand so that it will have an opportunity to develop a record which might show that the issuing magistrate had factual information additional to that presented in Sheriff Ogburn's complaint. Brief for Respondent 8-9.  Yet the State concedes, as on the record it must, that at every stage in the proceedings below petitioner argued the insufficiency of the warrant as well as the lack of probable cause at the time of the arrest. Brief for Respondent 4.  Knowing the basis for petitioner's constitutional claim, the State chose to try those proceedings on the record it had developed in the state courts.  See n. 4, supra.  Its sole explanation for this state of affairs is that "the state has felt, based on precedent and logic, that no court would accept the legal reasoning of petitioner." Brief for Respondent 9.  In the circumstances of this case, that justification, as we have shown, is untenable.
Pursuant to our authority under 28 U. S. C. ยง 2106 to make such disposition of the case "as may be just under the circumstances," we reverse the judgment of the Tenth Circuit and  remand with directions that the writ is to issue unless the State makes appropriate arrangements to retry petitioner. 13 Cf.   Giordenello v. United States, 357 U.S., at 487-488.
It is so ordered.
DISSENT BY: BLACK; BLACKMUN
MR. JUSTICE BLACK, with whom THE CHIEF JUSTICE joins, dissenting.
With all respect to my Brethren who agree to the judgment and opinion of the Court, I am constrained to say that I believe the decision here is a gross and wholly indefensible miscarriage of justice.  For this reason it may well be classified as one of those calculated to make many good people believe our Court actually enjoys frustrating justice by unnecessarily turning professional criminals loose to prey upon society with impunity.  Here is what this record shows:
On the night of November 23, 1964, several establishments, including a bar and hardware store were broken into at the village of Saratoga, Wyoming.  Some old coins and other items were taken from the hardware store. Some people saw petitioner and his companion that night in or near Saratoga.  The next morning the sheriff, who lived at Rawlins, the county seat, another village in sparsely settled Carbon County, 1 investigated the burglaries. In addition to viewing the scene of the crimes, the sheriff received a rather detailed description of the car, including a portion of the license plate number, said to have been used by the burglars. The sheriff also received a tip that persuaded him that petitioner and his companion, Jack Daley, were probably guilty of one of the burglaries. Upon the strength of this tip, coupled with his observation of the scene of the crimes and the description of the vehicle, the sheriff personally appeared before the justice of the peace in Rawlins to secure a warrant for the arrest of petitioner and his companion. After securing the warrant he authorized and sent a statewide radio police alert describing the men and their car and calling upon officers to arrest them.  The night of November 24, policemen at Laramie, Wyoming, learned that petitioner's companion, Daley, was in the city.  They located and stopped the car described in the alert, finding it occupied by two men matching the descriptions contained in the message. One of the officers personally recognized Jack Daley.  In response to a request for identification, Harold Whiteley gave police a false name.  At that point the two men were arrested and the car was searched. Old coins, tools, and other items later identified at trial as having been taken from the burglarized hardware store were found in the trunk and interior of the car.
At the trial the seized items were introduced into evidence over petitioner's objection.  In addition, petitioner was identified as having been near the scene of the crime on the night of November 23. 2 Jack Daley, petitioner's companion, told the jury in vivid detail how he and Whiteley jimmied open the back door and burglarized the hardware store. 3 Petitioner took the stand   and presented an alibi defense which was discredited by several witnesses including Jack Daley.  Petitioner was convicted and sentenced to 10 years for burglary and concurrently to life imprisonment under Wyoming law because of his several prior convictions.  It was charged and proved that he had been convicted of three felonies and the record shows that he was 43 year of age and had already served six times in the penitentiary.  The Supreme Court of Wyoming affirmed the conviction September 15, 1966,  Whiteley v. State, 418 P. 2d 164, holding that the Laramie officers had a right and duty to arrest the men in their vehicle because they had reasonable ground to believe the men had committed a burglary and that they had the fruits of their crime in the car, citing among other cases  Carroll v. United States, 267 U.S. 132 (1925). See also  Chambers v. Maroney, 399 U.S. 42 (1970).
I think it is a distortion of the Fourth Amendment's meaning to hold that this petitioner's arrest and the seizure of the goods he had stolen were an "unreasonable arrest" and an "unreasonable seizure." In deciding this question it should always be remembered that the Fourth Amendment itself does not expressly command that evidence obtained by its infraction should always be excluded from proof.
There was certainly probable cause to arrest this man.  The store was burglarized.  The county was a sparsely settled one in which people knew one another.  Petitioner, whose previous life would appear to have earned for him the title of professional in the stealing vocation, was seen around the store with his car the very night of the burglary. Undoubtedly this longtime county sheriff (who appears still to be sheriff) was bound to know petitioner. The tip he received was so persuasive to him that in the performance of his official duty he was willing to assume all the risk incident to having petitioner arrested.  It surely cannot be said that when a sheriff, with his prestige and standing, and bond against civil suit, communicates an emergency message to arrest men in cars as burglars, a policeman must stand supinely by while two people denounced as burglars go along their way.  Of course these policemen had enough information from the sheriff to have probable cause to arrest petitioner.
My disagreement with the majority concerning the wisdom and constitutional necessity of a "little trial" before a magistrate or justice of the peace prior to the issuance of a search or arrest warrant is a matter of record.  See Aguilar v. Texas, 378 U.S. 108, 116 (1964) (Clark, J., dissenting);  Spinelli v. United States, 393 U.S. 410, 429 (1969) (BLACK, J., dissenting).  But even accepting those decisions, arguendo, they do not control the disposition of this case which involves the apprehension of criminals in an automobile moving away from the scene of the crime less than 24 hours after its commission.  The sheriff's belief that Whiteley and Daley were guilty, even if it was only a "suspicion" as the majority seems to label it, gave police officers proper grounds to stop petitioner's car and inquire about its passengers.   Terry v. Ohio, 392 U.S. 1 (1968). And once the officers  stopped the car and positively identified Jack Daley, they had every reason to believe that Whiteley was lying and attempting to escape detection when he reported a false name.  At least at that point, if not before, the Laramie police had probable cause to arrest petitioner and Daley.  With probable cause to arrest the men, they also had authority to search the car.  Such a search could be justified under either of two theories.  Even under  Chimel v. California, 395 U.S. 752 (1969), the search of an automobile incident to the arrest of the occupants is permissible.  And in this very case, the officers found a fully loaded handgun in the glove compartment.  The search was also permissible under the "movable vehicle" exception to the usual requirement for a search warrant.  Chambers v. Maroney, 399 U.S. 42 (1970);  Carroll v. United States, 267 U.S. 132 (1925). I consider it a travesty of justice to turn this man out of jail or give him a new trial six years after he was convicted. 4
Fay v. Noia, 372 U.S. 391 (1963), does not, in my judgment, justify what the Court is doing.  The trial court passed on this issue of validity of petitioner's arrest some years ago.  Later he asked for relief through state post-conviction procedures on the same ground and his claim was rejected.  He has now sought relief through federal habeas corpus. After the United States District Court and the Court of Appeals rejected his unlawful-search claim, bringing to 10 the number of state and federal judges who have consistently and unanimously rejected petitioner's claim, this Court reverses his judgment of conviction, although petitioner does not, of course, now allege his innocence. As I said in  Kaufman v. United States, 394 U.S. 217, 231 (BLACK, J., dissenting), the Fay v. Noia remedy should be limited as it was by its own facts, and convictions should remain final unless a petitioner seeking habeas corpus alleges that he can currently show he was innocent.  There is not even a suspicion here that this hardened criminal is innocent and I would let him stay in confinement to serve his sentence.
<dissent author="BLACKMUN" text="FALSE">
MR. JUSTICE BLACKMUN agrees with much that is said by MR. JUSTICE BLACK and also dissents from the opinion and judgment of the Court.
