OPINION
MR. JUSTICE WHITE delivered the opinion of the Court.
This appeal requires us to decide whether dismissal of a federal indictment was constitutionally required by reason of a period of three years between the occurrence of the alleged criminal acts and the filing of the indictment.
On April 21, 1970, the two appellees were indicted and charged in 19 counts with operating a business known as Allied Enterprises, Inc., which was engaged in the business of selling and installing home improvements such as intercom sets, fire control devices, and burglary detection systems.  Allegedly, the business was fraudulently conducted and involved misrepresentations, alterations of documents, and deliberate nonperformance of contracts.  The period covered by the indictment was March 15, 1965, to February 6, 1967; the earliest specific act alleged occurred on September 3, 1965, the latest on January 19, 1966.
On May 5, 1970, appellees filed a motion to dismiss the indictment "for failure to commence prosecution of the alleged offenses charged therein within such time as to afford  rights to due process of law and to a speedy trial under the Fifth and Sixth Amendments to the Constitution of the United States." No evidence was submitted, but from the motion itself and the arguments of counsel at the hearing on the motion, it appears that Allied Enterprises had been subject to a Federal Trade Commission cease-and-desist order on February 6, 1967, and that a series of articles appeared in the Washington Post in October 1967, reporting the results of that newspaper's investigation of practices employed by home improvement firms such as Allied.  The articles also contained purported statements of the then United States Attorney for the District of Columbia describing his office's investigation of these firms and predicting that indictments would soon be forthcoming.  Although the statements attributed to the United States Attorney did not mention Allied specifically, that company was mentioned in the course of the newspaper stories.  In the summer of 1968, at the request of the United States Attorney's office, Allied delivered certain of its records to that office, and in an interview there appellee Marion discussed his conduct as an officer of Allied Enterprises.  The grand jury that indicted appellees was not impaneled until September 1969, appellees were not informed of the grand jury's concern with them until March 1970, and the indictment was finally handed down in April.
Appellees moved to dismiss because the indictment was returned "an unreasonably oppressive and unjustifiable time after the alleged offenses." They argued that the indictment required memory of many specific acts and conversations occurring several years before, and they contended that the delay was due to the negligence or indifference of the United States Attorney in investigating the case and presenting it to a grand jury. No specific prejudice was claimed or demonstrated.  The District Court judge dismissed the indictment for "lack of speedy prosecution" at the conclusion of the hearing and remarked that since the Government must have become aware of the relevant facts in 1967, the defense of the case "is bound to have been seriously prejudiced by the delay of at least some three years in bringing the prosecution that should have been brought in 1967, or at the very latest early 1968." 1
The United States appealed directly to this Court pursuant to 18 U. S. C. ยง 3731 (1964 ed., Supp. V). 2 We postponed consideration of the question of jurisdiction until the hearing on the merits of the case. 3 We now hold that the Court has jurisdiction, and on the merits we reverse the judgment of the District Court.
I
Prior to its recent amendment, 18 U. S. C. ยง 3731 (1964 ed., Supp. V) authorized an appeal to this Court by the United States when in any criminal case a district court sustained "a motion in bar, when the defendant has not been put in jeopardy." It is plain to us that the appeal of the United States is within the purview of this section.  Appellees had not been placed in jeopardy when the District Court rendered its judgment. The trial judge based his ruling on undue delay prior to indictment, a matter that was beyond the power of the Government to cure since re-indictment would not have been permissible under such a ruling.  The motion to dismiss rested on grounds that had nothing to do with guilt or innocence or the truth of the allegations in the indictment but was, rather, a plea in the nature of confession and avoidance, that is, where the defendant does not deny that he has committed the acts alleged and that the acts were a crime but instead pleads that he cannot be prosecuted because of some extraneous factor, such as the running of the statute of limitations or the denial of a speedy trial. See United States v. Weller, 401 U.S. 254, 260 (1971). The motion rested on constitutional grounds exclusively, and neither the motion, the arguments of counsel, the Court's oral opinion, nor its judgment mentioned Federal Rule of Criminal Procedure 48 (b), as a ground for dismissal. 4 Our jurisdiction to hear this appeal has been satisfactorily established.
II
Appellees do not claim that the Sixth Amendment was violated by the two-month delay between the return of the indictment and its dismissal. Instead, they claim that their rights to a speedy trial were violated by the period of approximately three years between the end of the criminal scheme charged and the return of the indictment; it is argued that this delay is so substantial and inherently prejudicial that the Sixth Amendment required the dismissal of the indictment. In our view, however, the Sixth Amendment speedy trial provision has no application until the putative defendant in some way becomes an "accused," an event that occurred in this case only when the appellees were indicted on April 21, 1970.
The Sixth Amendment provides that "in all criminal prosecutions, the accused shall enjoy the right to a speedy and public trial . . . ." On its face, the protection of the Amendment is activated only when a criminal prosecution has begun and extends only to those persons who have been "accused" in the course of that prosecution.  These provisions would seem to afford no protection to those not yet accused, nor would they seem to require the Government to discover, investigate, and accuse any person within any particular period of time.  The Amendment would appear to guarantee to a criminal defendant that the Government will move with the dispatch that is appropriate to assure him an early and proper disposition of the charges against him.  "The essential ingredient is orderly expedition and not mere speed." Smith v. United States, 360 U.S. 1, 10 (1959).
Our attention is called to nothing in the circumstances surrounding the adoption of the Amendment indicating that it does not mean what   it appears to say, 5 nor is there more than marginal support for the proposition that, at the time of the adoption of the Amendment, the prevailing rule was that prosecutions would not be permitted if there had been long delay in presenting a charge. 6 The framers could hardly have selected less   appropriate language if they had intended the speedy trial provision to protect against pre-accusation delay.  No opinions of this Court intimate support for appellees' thesis, 7 and the courts of appeals that have considered the question in constitutional terms have never reversed a conviction or dismissed an indictment solely on the basis of the Sixth Amendment's speedy trial provision where only pre-indictment delay was involved. 8
Legislative efforts to implement federal and state speedy trial provisions also plainly reveal the view that these guarantees are applicable only after a person has   been accused of a crime.  The Court has pointed out that "at the common law and in the absence of special statutes of limitations the mere failure to find an indictment will not operate to discharge the accused from the offense nor will a nolle prosequi entered by the Government or the failure of the grand jury to indict."  United States v. Cadarr, 197 U.S. 475, 478 (1905).Since it is "doubtless true that in some cases the power of the Government has been abused and charges have been kept hanging over the heads of citizens, and they have been committed for unreasonable periods, resulting in hardship," the Court noted that many States "with a view to preventing such wrong to the citizen . . .  in aid of the constitutional provisions, National and state, intended to secure to the accused a speedy trial" had passed statutes limiting the time within which such trial must occur after charge or indictment. 9 Characteristically, these statutes to which the Court referred are triggered only when a citizen is charged or accused. 10 The statutes vary greatly in substance, structure, and interpretation, but a common denominator is that "in no event . . .  the right to speedy trial arise before there is some charge or arrest, even though the prosecuting authorities had knowledge of the offense long before this." Note, The Right to a Speedy Trial,  57 Col. L. Rev. 846, 848 (1957).
No federal statute of general applicability has been enacted by Congress to enforce the speedy trial provision of the Sixth Amendment, but Federal Rule of Criminal Procedure 48 (b), which   has the force of law, authorizes dismissal of an indictment, information, or complaint "if there is unnecessary delay in presenting the charge to a grand jury or in filing an information against a defendant who has been held to answer to the district court, or if there is unnecessary delay in bringing a defendant to trial . . . ." The rule clearly is limited to post-arrest situations. 11
Appellees' position is, therefore, at odds with longstanding legislative and judicial constructions of the speedy trial provisions in both national and state constitutions.
III
It is apparent also that very little support for appellees' position emerges from a consideration of the purposes of the Sixth Amendment's speedy trial provision, a guarantee that this Court has termed "an important safeguard to prevent undue and oppressive incarceration prior to trial, to minimize anxiety and concern accompanying public accusation and to limit the possibilities that long delay will impair the ability of an accused to defend himself."  United States v. Ewell, 383 U.S. 116, 120 (1966); see also  Klopfer v. North Carolina, 386 U.S. 213, 221-226 (1967); Dickey v. Florida, 398 U.S. 30, 37-38 (1970). Inordinate delay between arrest, indictment, and trial may impair a defendant's ability to present an effective defense.  But the major evils protected against by the speedy trial guarantee exist quite apart from actual or possible prejudice to an accused's defense.  To legally arrest and detain, the Government must assert probable cause to believe the arrestee has committed a crime.  Arrest is a public act that may seriously interfere with the defendant's liberty, whether he is free on bail or not, and that may disrupt his employment, drain his financial resources, curtail his associations, subject him to public obloquy, and create anxiety in him, his family and his friends.  These considerations were substantial underpinnings for the decision in  Klopfer v. North Carolina, supra; see also  Smith v. Hooey, 393 U.S. 374, 377-378 (1969). So viewed, it is readily understandable that it is either a formal indictment or information or else the actual restraints imposed by arrest and holding to answer a criminal charge that engage the particular protections of the speedy trial provision of the Sixth Amendment.
Invocation of the speedy trial provision thus need not await indictment, information, or other formal charge. 12 But we decline to extend the reach of the amendment to the period prior to arrest. Until this event occurs, a citizen suffers no restraints on his liberty and is not the subject of public accusation: his situation does not compare with that of a defendant who has been arrested and held to answer.  Passage of time, whether before or after arrest, may impair memories, cause evidence to be lost, deprive the defendant of witnesses, and otherwise interfere with his ability to defend himself. 13 But this possibility of prejudice at trial is not itself sufficient reason to wrench the Sixth Amendment from its proper context. Possible prejudice is inherent in any delay, however short; it may also weaken the Government's case.
The law has provided other mechanisms to guard against possible as distinguished from actual prejudice resulting from the passage of time between crime and arrest or charge.  As we said in  United States v. Ewell, supra, at 122,   "the applicable statute of limitations . . . is . . . the primary guarantee against bringing overly stale criminal charges." Such statutes represent legislative assessments of relative interests of the State and the defendant in administering and receiving justice; they "are made for the repose of society and the protection of those who may  . . . have lost their means of defence."  Public Schools v. Walker, 9 Wall. 282, 288 (1870). These statutes provide predictability by specifying a limit beyond which there is an irrebuttable presumption that a   defendant's right to a fair trial would be prejudiced. 14 As this Court observed in  Toussie v. United States, 397 U.S. 112, 114-115 (1970):
"The purpose of a statute of limitations is to limit exposure to criminal prosecution to a certain fixed period of time following the occurrence of those acts the legislature has decided to punish by criminal sanctions.  Such a limitation is designed to protect individuals from having to defend themselves against charges when the basic facts may have become obscured by the passage of time and to minimize the danger of official punishment because of acts in the far-distant past.  Such a time limit may also have the salutary effect of encouraging law enforcement officials promptly to investigate suspected criminal activity."
There is thus no need to press the Sixth Amendment into service to guard against the mere possibility that pre-accusation delays will prejudice the defense in a criminal case since statutes of limitation already perform that function.
Since appellees rely only on potential prejudice and the passage of time between the alleged crime and the indictment, see Part IV, infra, we perhaps need go no further to dispose of this case, for the indictment was the first official act designating appellees as accused individuals and that event occurred within the statute of limitations. 15 Nevertheless, since a criminal trial is the likely consequence of our judgment and since appellees may claim actual prejudice to their defense, it is appropriate to note here that the statute of limitations does not fully define the appellees' rights with respect   to the events occurring prior to indictment. Thus, the Government concedes that the Due Process Clause of the Fifth Amendment would require dismissal of the indictment if it were shown at trial that the pre-indictment delay in this case caused substantial prejudice to appellees' rights to a fair trial and that the delay was an intentional device to gain tactical advantage over the accused. 16 Cf.   Brady v. Maryland, 373 U.S. 83 (1963);  Napue v. Illinois, 360 U.S. 264 (1959). However, we need not, and could not now, determine when and in what circumstances actual prejudice resulting from pre-accusation delays requires the dismissal of the prosecution. 17 Actual prejudice to the defense of a criminal case may result from the shortest and most necessary delay; and no one suggests that every delay-caused detriment to a defendant's case should abort a criminal prosecution. 18 To accommodate the sound administration of justice to the rights of the defendant to a fair trial will necessarily involve a delicate judgment based on the circumstances of each case.  It would be unwise at this juncture to attempt to forecast our decision in such cases.
IV
In the case before us, neither appellee was arrested, charged, or otherwise subjected to formal restraint prior to indictment. It was this event, therefore, that transformed the appellees into "accused" defendants who are subject to the speedy trial protections of the Sixth Amendment.
The 38-month delay between the end of the scheme charged in the indictment and the date the defendants were indicted did not extend beyond the period of the applicable statute of limitations here. Appellees have not, of course, been able to claim undue delay pending trial, since the indictment was brought on April 21, 1970, and dismissed on June 8, 1970.  Nor have appellees adequately demonstrated that the pre-indictment delay by the Government violated the Due Process Clause.  No actual prejudice to the conduct of the defense is alleged or proved, and there is no showing that the Government intentionally delayed to gain some tactical advantage over appellees or to harass them.  Appellees rely solely on the real possibility of prejudice inherent in any extended delay: that memories will dim, witnesses become inaccessible, and evidence be lost.  In light of the applicable statute of limitations, however, these possibilities are not in themselves enough to demonstrate that appellees cannot receive a fair trial and to therefore justify the dismissal of the indictment. Events of the trial may demonstrate actual prejudice, but at the present time appellees' due process claims are speculative and premature.
Reversed.
<concur author="DOUGLAS" text="TRUE">
CONCUR BY: DOUGLAS
MR. JUSTICE DOUGLAS, with whom MR. JUSTICE BRENNAN and MR. JUSTICE MARSHALL join, concurring in the result.
I assume that if the three-year delay in this case had occurred after the indictment had been returned, the right to a speedy trial would have been impaired and the indictment would have to be dismissed.  I disagree with the Court that the guarantee does not apply if the delay was at the pre-indictment stage of a case.
From March 15, 1965, to February 6, 1967, appellees acting through Allied Enterprises, Inc., sold and installed home intercom, fire control, and burglar detection devices in the District of Columbia metropolitan area.  Their business endeavors were soon met with a spate of lawsuits seeking recovery for consumer fraud and, on February 6, 1967, their brief career was ended by a cease-and-desist order entered by the Federal Trade Commission.  Public notoriety continued to surround appellees' activities and, in a series of articles appearing in the Washington Post in September and October of 1967, their business was mentioned as being under investigation by the United States Attorney.  The special grand jury that was impaneled on October 9, 1967, to investigate consumer fraud did not, however, return an indictment against   appellees.  Sometime between the summer of 1968 and January 1969, appellees delivered their business records to the United States Attorney, but an indictment was not returned against them until April 21, 1970.  The indictment charged some 19 counts of mail fraud, wire fraud, and transportation of falsely made securities in interstate commerce all between September 3, 1965, and January 19, 1966.
Appellees moved "to dismiss the indictment for failure to commence prosecution . . . within such time as to  . . . rights to due process of law and to a speedy trial . . . ." The United States Attorney sought to excuse the delay, alleging that his office had been understaffed at the time and that it had given priority to other types of crimes.  The District Court granted appellees' motion 1 and the United States appealed.  18 U. S. C. ยง 3731 (1964 ed., Supp. V).
The majority says "that it is either a formal indictment or information or else the actual restraints imposed by arrest and holding to answer a criminal charge that engage the particular protections of the speedy trial provision . . . ." Ante, at 320.
The Sixth Amendment, to be sure, states that "the accused shall enjoy the right to a speedy and public trial." But the words "the accused," as I understand them in their Sixth Amendment setting, mean only the person who has standing to complain of prosecutorial delay in seeking an indictment or filing an information.  The right to a speedy trial is the right to be brought to trial speedily which would seem to be as relevant to pre-indictment delays as it is to post-indictment delays.  Much is made of the history of the Sixth Amendment as indicating that the speedy trial guarantee had no application to pre-prosecution delays.
There are two answers to that proposition.  First, British courts historically did consider delay as a condition to issuance of an information.
Lord Mansfield held in Rex v. Robinson, 1 Black. W. 541, 542,  96 Eng. Rep. 313 (K. B. 1765), that the issuance of an information was subject to time limitations: "If delayed, the delay must be reasonably accounted for." In Regina v. Hext, 4 Jurist 339 (Q. B. 1840), an information was refused where a whole term of court had passed since the alleged assault took place.  Accord:  Rex v. Marshall, 13 East 322, 104 Eng. Rep. 394 (K. B. 1811).
Baron Alderson said in Regina v. Robins, 1 Cox's C. C. 114 (Somerset Winter Assizes 1844), where there was a two-year delay in making a charge of bestiality:
"It is monstrous to put a man on his trial after such a lapse of time.  How can he account for his conduct so far back?  If you accuse a man of a crime the next day, he may be enabled to bring forward his servants and family to say where he was and what he was about at the time; but if the charge be not preferred for a year or more, how can he clear himself?  No man's life would be safe if such a prosecution were permitted.  It would be very unjust to put him on his trial."
Second, and more basically, the 18th century criminal prosecution at the common law was in general commenced in a completely different way from that with which we are familiar today.  By the common law of England which was brought to the American colonies, the ordinary criminal prosecution was conducted by a private prosecutor, in the name of the King.  In case the victim of the crime or someone interested came forward to prosecute, he retained his own counsel and had charge of the case as in the usual civil proceeding.  See G. Dession, Criminal Law, Administration and Public Order 356 (1948).  Procedurally, the criminal prosecution was commenced by the filing of a lawsuit, and thereafter the filing of an application for criminal prosecution or rule nisi or similar procedure calling for the defendant to show cause why he should not be imprisoned.  The English common law, with which the Framers were familiar, conceived of a criminal prosecution as being commenced prior to indictment. Thus in that setting the individual charged as the defendant in a criminal proceeding could and would be an "accused" prior to formal indictment. 2
The right to a speedy trial, which we have characterized "as fundamental as any of the rights secured by the Sixth Amendment,"  Klopfer v. North Carolina, 386 U.S. 213, 223, protects several demands of criminal justice: the prevention of undue delay and oppressive incarceration prior to trial; the reduction of anxiety and concern accompanying public accusation; and limiting the possibilities that long delay will impair the ability of an accused to defend himself.   Smith v. Hooey, 393 U.S. 374, 377-378 (1969). See also  People v. Prosser, 309 N. Y. 353, 356, 130 N. E. 2d 891, 894 (1955). The right also serves broader interests:
"The Speedy Trial Clause protects societal interests, as well as those of the accused.  The public is concerned with the effective prosecution of criminal cases, both to restrain those guilty of crime and to deter those contemplating it.  Just as delay may impair the ability of the accused to defend himself, so it may reduce the capacity of the government to prove its case.  See  Ponzi v. Fessenden, 258 U.S. 254, 264 (1922). Moreover, while awaiting trial, an accused who is at large may become a fugitive from justice or commit other criminal acts.  And the greater the lapse of time between commission of an offense and the conviction of the offender, the less the deterrent value of his conviction." Dickey v. Florida, 398 U.S. 30, 42 (1970) (BRENNAN, J., concurring).
At least some of these values served by the right to a speedy trial are not unique to any particular stage of the criminal proceeding.  See Note,  43 N. Y. U. L. Rev. 722, 725-726 (1968); Note,  77 Yale L. J. 767, 780-783 (1968); Comment,  11 Ariz. L. Rev. 770, 774-776 (1969). Undue delay may be as offensive to the right to a speedy trial before as after an indictment or information. The anxiety and concern attendant on public accusation may weigh more heavily upon an individual who has not yet been formally indicted or arrested for, to him, exoneration by a jury of his peers may be only a vague possibility lurking in the distant future.  Indeed, the protection underlying the right to a speedy trial may be denied when a citizen is damned by clandestine innuendo and never given the chance promptly to defend himself in a court of law.  Those who are accused of crime but never tried may lose their jobs or their positions of responsibility, or become outcasts in their communities.
The impairment of the ability to defend oneself may become acute because of delays in the pre-indictment stage.  Those delays may result in the loss of alibi witnesses, the destruction of material evidence, and the blurring of memories. At least when a person has been accused of a specific crime, he can devote his powers of recall to the events surrounding the alleged occurrences. When there is no formal accusation, however, the State may proceed methodically to build its case while the prospective defendant proceeds to lose his. 3
The duty which the Sixth Amendment places on Government officials to proceed expeditiously with criminal prosecutions would have little meaning if those officials could determine when that duty was to commence.  To be sure, "the right of a speedy trial is necessarily relative.  It is consistent with delays and depends upon circumstances."  Beavers v. Haubert, 198 U.S. 77, 87 (1905). But it is precisely because this right is relative that we should draw the line so as not to condone illegitimate delays whether at the pre- or the post-indictment stage. 4
Our decisions do not support the limitations of the right to a speedy trial adopted in the majority's conclusion that "the  amendment  to the period prior to arrest." Ante, at 321.  In Miranda v. Arizona, 384 U.S. 436, 444 (1966), we held that it was necessary for the police to advise of the right to counsel in the pre-indictment situation where "a person has been taken into custody or otherwise deprived of his freedom of action in any significant way." That case, like the present one, dealt with one of the rights enumerated in the Sixth Amendment to which an "accused" was entitled.  We were not then concerned with whether an "arrest" or an "indictment" was necessary for a person to be an "accused" and thus entitled to Sixth Amendment protections.  We looked instead to the nature of the event and its effect on the rights involved.  We applied the Miranda rule even though there was no "arrest," but only an examination of the suspect while he was in his bed at his boarding house, the presence of the officers making him "in custody."  Orozco v. Texas, 394 U.S. 324, 327. We should follow the same approach here and hold that the right to a speedy trial is denied if there were years of unexplained and inexcusable pre-indictment delay.
Dickey v. Florida, supra, similarly demonstrates the wisdom of avoiding today's mechanical approach to the application of basic constitutional guarantees. While he was in custody on an unrelated federal charge, the petitioner was identified by a witness to the robbery.  Petitioner remained in federal custody, but the State did not seek to prosecute him until September 1, 1967, when he moved to dismiss the detainer warrant which had been lodged against him.  An information was then filed on December 15, 1967, and petitioner was tried on February 13, 1968.  Although the trial took place less than two months after the filing of the information, we held that there had been a denial of the right to a speedy trial because of the delay of more than seven years between the crime and the information.
In a concurring opinion, MR. JUSTICE BRENNAN discussed the broader questions raised by that case:
"When is governmental delay reasonable?  Clearly, a deliberate attempt by the government to use delay to harm the accused, or governmental delay that is 'purposeful or oppressive,' is unjustifiable. . . .  The same may be true of any governmental delay that is unnecessary, whether intentional or negligent in origin.  A negligent failure by the government to ensure speedy trial is virtually as damaging to the interests protected by the right as an intentional failure; when negligence is the cause, the only interest necessarily unaffected is our common concern to prevent deliberate misuse of the criminal process by public officials.  Thus the crucial question in determining the legitimacy of governmental delay may be whether it might reasonably have been avoided -- whether it was unnecessary.  To determine the necessity for governmental delay, it would seem important to consider, on the one hand, the intrinsic importance of the reason for the delay, and, on the other, the length of the delay and its potential for prejudice to interests protected by the speedy-trial   safeguard.  For a trivial objective, almost any delay could be reasonably avoided.  Similarly, lengthy delay, even in the interest of realizing an important objective, would be suspect."  398 U.S., at 51-52.
In the present case, two to three years elapsed between the time the District Court found that the charges could and should have been brought and the actual return of the indictment. The justifications offered were that the United States Attorney's office was "not sufficiently staffed to proceed as expeditiously" as desirable 5 and that priority had been given to other cases.  Appellees say that the present indictment embraces counts such as an allegedly fraudulent telephone conversation made on December 16, 1965.  They argue that there is a great likelihood that the recollection of such events will be blurred or erased by the frailties of the human memory. If this were a simpler crime, I think the British precedent which I have cited would warrant dismissal of the indictment because of the speedy trial guarantee of the Sixth Amendment. But we know from experience that the nature of the crime charged here often has vast interstate aspects, the victims are often widely scattered and hard to locate, and the reconstruction of the total scheme of the fraudulent plan takes time. If we applied the simpler rule that was applied in simpler days, we would be giving extraordinary advantages to organized crime as well as others who use a farflung complicated network to perform their illegal activities.  I think a three-year delay even in that kind of case goes to the edge of a permissible delay.  But on the bare bones of this record I hesitate to say that the guarantee of a speedy trial has been violated.  Unless appellees on remand demonstrate actual prejudice, I would agree that the prosecution might go forward.  Hence I concur in the result.
