OPINION
We granted certiorari to review the constitutionality of Neb. Rev. Stat. ยง 25-1914 (1964) 1 under which the Nebraska Supreme Court dismissed this indigent petitioner's appeal for his failure to deposit the $ 75 cash or bond security for costs required of appellants by the statute.  404 U.S. 990 (1971). The judgment appealed from annulled petitioner's marriage to respondent and dismissed his countersuit claiming paternity and custody of a child born to respondent.  After our grant of certiorari, Nebraska enacted   Legislative Bill 1120 providing, among other things, that the Nebraska courts "shall authorize . . .  appeal . . . without prepayment   of . . . security, by a person who makes an affidavit that he is unable to . . . give security . . . ," except that "an appeal may not be taken in forma pauperis if the trial court certifies in writing that it is not taken in good faith." Counsel for both parties were of the opinion on oral argument here that this new statute is applicable to the instant case.  Counsel for respondent also conceded that petitioner's appeal on the paternity issue has merit. 2 Accordingly, the judgment is vacated and the cause remanded to the Nebraska Supreme Court for reconsideration in light of the supervening statute.
It is so ordered.
CONCUR BY: DOUGLAS
MR. JUSTICE DOUGLAS, concurring.
While I agree to either reversing the judgment below or vacating and remanding, I do so on somewhat different grounds.
This case is clearly controlled by  Boddie v. Connecticut, 401 U.S. 371. It involves, not a divorce, but an annulment and a claim concerning the   paternity and custody of a child.  The principles announced in Boddie are therefore clearly applicable no matter how closely Boddie is confined. 1
What the Supreme Court of Nebraska may do about the statute that has recently been enacted is its business and not ours.  The parties before us cannot by their agreement make that statute applicable.  Only the Supreme Court of Nebraska can do so, and we cannot direct that court to reconsider this case in light of the supervening statute. 2 The Supreme Court of Nebraska is sovereign in its own right in connection with local law matters.  Boddie contains the guiding federal principle and that principle alone should control the disposition that we make of the case. 3
XXX
