OPINION
MR. JUSTICE BLACKMUN delivered the opinion of the Court.
Title I of the Elementary and Secondary Education Act of 1965, as amended, 20 U. S. C. § 241a et seq., provides for federal funding of special programs for educationally deprived children in both public and private schools.
This suit was instituted on behalf of parochial school students who were eligible for Title I benefits and who claimed that the public school authorities in their area, in violation of the Act, failed to provide adequate Title I programs for private school children as compared with those programs provided for public school children.  The defendants answered that the extensive aid sought by the plaintiffs exceeded the requirements of Title I and contravened the State's Constitution and state law and public policy.   First Amendment rights were also raised by the parties.  The District   Court, concluding that the State had fulfilled its Title I obligations, denied relief.  The United States Court of Appeals for the Eighth Circuit, by a divided vote, reversed.  475 F.2d 1338 (1973). We granted certiorari to examine serious questions that appeared to be present as to the scope and constitutionality of Title I.  414 U.S. 908 (1973).
I
Title I is the first federal-aid-to-education program authorizing assistance for private school children as well as for public school children. The Congress, by its statutory declaration of policy, 1 and otherwise, recognized that all children from educationally deprived areas do not necessarily attend the public schools, and that, since the legislative aim was to provide needed assistance to educationally deprived children rather than to specific schools, it was necessary to include eligible private school children among the beneficiaries of the Act. 2
Since the Act was designed to be administered by local public education officials, 3 a number of problems naturally arise in the delivery of services to eligible private school pupils.  Under the administrative structure envisioned by the Act, the primary responsibility for designing and effectuating a Title I program rests with what the Act and the implementing regulations describe as the "local educational agency." 4 This local agency submits to the "State educational agency" 5 a proposed program designed to meet the special educational needs of educationally deprived children in school attendance areas with high concentrations of children from low-income families.  The state agency then must approve the local plan and, in turn, forward the approved proposal to the United States Commissioner of Education, who has the ultimate responsibility for administering the program and dispensing the appropriated and allocated funds.  In order to receive state approval, the proposed plan, among other requirements, must be designed to provide the eligible private school students services that are "comparable in quality, scope, and opportunity for participation to those provided for public school children with needs of equally high priority." United States Office of Education (USOE) Program Guide No. 44, para. 4.5 (1968), 6 reproduced in Title I ESEA, Participation of Private School Children -- A Handbook for State and Local School Officials, U.S. Dept. of Health, Education, and Welfare, Publication No. (OE) 72-62,  p. 41 (1971) (hereinafter referred to as the Handbook).
The questions that arise in this case concern the scope of the State's duty to insure that a program submitted by a local agency under Title I provides "comparable" services for eligible private school children.
II
Plaintiff-respondents are parents of minor children attending elementary and secondary nonpublic schools in the inner city area of Kansas City, Missouri. They instituted this class action in the United States District Court for the Western District of Missouri on behalf of themselves and their children, and others similarly situated, alleging that the defendant-petitioners, the then State Commissioner of Education and the members of the Missouri Board of Education, arbitrarily and illegally were approving Title I programs that deprived eligible nonpublic school children of services comparable to those offered eligible public school children.  The complaint sought an injunction restraining continued violations of the Act and an accounting and restoration of some $ 13,000,000 in Title I funds allegedly misapplied from 1966 to 1969.
The District Court initially dismissed the complaint on the alternative grounds of failure to exhaust state remedies and abstention.  The Court of Appeals reversed this dismissal and remanded the case for trial.  441 F.2d 795 (CA8 1971). It observed: "We indicate no opinion on the merits of the alleged noncompliance by the state officials." Id., at 801.
On remand, the District Court found that while most of the Title I funds allocated to public schools in Missouri were used "to employ teachers to instruct in remedial subjects," the petitioners had refused "to approve any applications allocating money for teachers in parochial schools during regular school hours." Pet. for Cert. A40.  The court did find that petitioners in some instances had approved the use of Title I money "to provide mobile educational services and equipment, visual aids, and educational radio and television in parochial schools.  Teachers for after-school classes, weekend classes, and summer school classes, all open to parochial school pupils, have all been approved." Id., at A40-A41.
In what perhaps may be described as something less than full cooperation by both sides, the possibility of providing "comparable" services was apparently frustrated by the fact that many parochial schools would accept only services in the form of assignment of federally funded Title I teachers to teach in those schools during regular school hours.  At the same time, the petitioners refused to approve any program providing for on-the-premises instruction on the grounds that it was forbidden under both Missouri law and the First Amendment and, furthermore, that Title I did not require it.  Since the larger portion (over 65%) of Title I funds   allocated to Missouri has been used to provide personnel for remedial instruction, the effect of this stalemate is that substantially less money per pupil has been expended for eligible students in private schools, and that the services provided in those schools in no sense can be considered "comparable." 7
Faced with this situation, the District Court recognized that "this head-on conflict . . . has resulted in an undoubtedly inequitable expenditure of Title I funds between educationally deprived children in public and nonpublic schools in some local school districts in the state." Id., at A41.
Nonetheless, the District Court denied relief.  It reasoned that since the petitioners were under no statutory obligation to provide on-the-premises nonpublic school instruction, the failure to provide that instruction could not violate the Act.  The court further reasoned that since the petitioners apparently had approved all programs "except those requesting salaried teachers in the nonpublic schools," id., at A43, they had fulfilled their commitment. The court did not directly consider whether programs in effect without on-the-premises private school instruction complied with the comparability requirement despite gross disparity in the services delivered.
The Court of Appeals reversed.  It traced the legislative history of Title I, examined the language of the statute and the regulations, and noted "that the Act and the regulations require a program for educationally  deprived non-public school children that is comparable in quality, scope and opportunity, which may or may not necessarily be equal in dollar expenditures to that provided in the public schools." 475 F.2d, at 1344. The court then observed that the Act does not mandate that services take any particular form and that, within the confines of the comparability requirement, the Act left to the state and local agencies the task of designing a program best suited to meet the particularized needs of both the public school children and the nonpublic school children in the area.  After reviewing the unique situation existing in Missouri, where funds were grossly malapportioned due to the refusal to employ either dual enrollment or Title I teachers on private school premises, 8 the court concluded that the petitioners were in violation of the comparability requirement:
"Thus, we find that when the need of educationally disadvantaged children requires it, Title I authorizes special teaching services, as contemplated within the Act and regulations, to be furnished by the public agency on private as well as public school premises.  In other words,  we think it clear that the Act demands that if such special services are furnished public school children, then comparable programs, if needed, must be provided the disadvantaged private school child." Id., at 1353.
In response to petitioners' argument that Missouri law forbids sending public school teachers into private schools, the court held that the state constitutional provision barring use of "public" school funds in private schools had no application to Title I funds.  The court reasoned that although the Act was generally to be accommodated to state law, the question whether Title I funds were "public," within the meaning of the Missouri Constitution, 9   must necessarily be decided by federal law. Id., at 1351-1353. Finally, the court refused to pass on petitioners' claim that the Establishment Clause of the First Amendment would be violated if Title I, in fact, does require or permit service by public school teachers on private school premises.  The reason stated for the court's refusal was that since no plan had yet been implemented, the court "must refrain from passing upon important constitutional questions on an abstract or hypothetical basis." Id., at 1354.
The dissent argued that although Title I permits the assignment of Title I teachers to nonpublic schools, it does not mandate that assignment, and that if the Act is to be read as embracing such a mandate, it would present substantial First Amendment problems that could not be avoided.  Id., at 1358-1359. 10
III
In this Court the parties are at odds over two issues: First, whether on this record Title I requires the assignment of publicly employed teachers to provide remedial instruction during regular school hours on the premises of private schools attended by Title I eligible students, and, second, whether that requirement, if it exists, contravenes the First Amendment. We conclude that we cannot reach and decide either issue at this stage of the proceedings.
A. Title I requirements.  As the case was presented to the District Court, petitioners clearly had failed to meet their statutory commitment to provide comparable services 11 to children in nonpublic schools. The services provided to the class of children represented by respondents were plainly inferior, both qualitatively and quantitatively, and the Court of Appeals was correct in ruling that the District Court erred in refusing to order relief.  But the opinion of the Court of Appeals is not to be read to the effect that petitioners must submit and approve plans that employ the use of Title I teachers on private school premises during regular school hours.
The legislative history, the language of the Act, and the regulations clearly reveal the intent of Congress to place plenary responsibility in local and state agencies for the formulation of suitable programs under the Act.  There was a pronounced aversion in Congress to "federalization" of local educational decisions.
"It is the intention of the proposed legislation not to prescribe the specific types of programs or projects that will be required in school districts.  Rather, such matters are left to the discretion and judgment of the local public educational agencies since educational needs and requirements for strengthening educational opportunities for educationally deprived elementary and secondary school pupils will vary from State to State and district to district." H. R. Rep. No. 143, 89th Cong., 1st Sess., 5 (1965); S. Rep. No. 146, 89th Cong., 1st Sess., 9 (1965).
And 20 U. S. C. § 1232a provides, inter alia:
"No provision of . . . the Elementary and Secondary Education Act of 1965 . . . shall be construed to authorize any department, agency, officer, or employee of the United States to exercise any direction, supervision, or control over the curriculum, program of instruction, administration, or personnel of any educational institution, school, or school system . . . ."
Although this concern was directed primarily at the possibility of HEW's assuming the role of a national school board, it has equal application to the possibility of a federal court's playing an overly active role in supervising the manner of Title I expenditures.
At the outset, we believe that the Court of Appeals erred in holding that federal law governed the question whether on-the-premises private school instruction is permissible under Missouri law. Whatever the case might be if there were no expression of specific congressional intent, 12 Title I evinces a clear intention that state constitutional spending proscriptions not be pre-empted as a condition of accepting federal funds. 13 The key issue, namely, whether federal aid is money "donated to any state fund for public school purposes," within   the meaning of the Missouri Constitution, Art. 9, § 5, is purely a question   of state and not federal law. By characterizing the problem as one involving "federal" and not "state" funds,  and then concluding that federal law governs, the Court of Appeals, we feel, in effect nullified the Act's policy of accommodating state law. The correct rule is that the "federal law" under Title I is to the effect that state law should not be disturbed.  If it is determined, ultimately, that the petitioners' position is a correct exposition of Missouri law, Title I requires, not that that law be preempted, but, rather, that it be accommodated by the use of services not proscribed under state law. The question whether Missouri law prohibits the use of Title I funds for on-the-premises private school instruction is still unresolved.  See n. 9, supra.
Furthermore, in the present posture of this case, it was unnecessary for the federal court even to reach the issue whether on-the-premises parochial school instruction is permissible under state law. The state-law question appeared in the case by way of petitioners' defense that it could not provide on-the-premises services because it was prohibited by the State's Constitution.  But, as is discussed more fully below,   the State is not obligated by Title I to provide on-the-premises instruction.  The mandate is to provide "comparable" services.  Assuming, arguendo, that state law does prohibit on-the-premises instruction, this would not provide a defense to respondents' complaint that comparable services are not being provided.  The choice of programs is left to the State with the proviso that comparable (not identical) programs are also made available to eligible private school children. If one form of services to parochial school children is rendered unavailable because of state constitutional proscriptions, the solution is to employ an   acceptable alternative form.  In short, since the illegality under state law of on-the-premises instruction would not provide a  defense to respondents' charge of noncompliance with Title I, there was no reason for the Court of Appeals to reach this issue.  By deciding that on-the-premises instruction was not barred by state law, the court in effect issued an advisory opinion.  Even apart from traditional policies of abstention and comity, it was unnecessary to decide this question in the current posture of the case.
The Court of Appeals properly recognized, as we have noted, that petitioners failed to meet their broad obligation and commitment under the Act to provide comparable programs. 14   "Comparable," however, does not mean "identical," and, contrary to the assertions of both sides, we do not read the Court of Appeals' opinion or, for that matter, the Act itself, as ever requiring that identical services be provided in nonpublic schools. 15 Congress recognized that the needs of educationally deprived children attending nonpublic schools might be different from those of similar children in public schools; it was also recognized that in some States certain programs for private and parochial schools would be legally impossible because of state constitutional restrictions,  most notably in the church-state area.  See n. 9, supra. 16 Title I was not intended to override these individualized state restrictions.  Rather, there was a clear intention that the assistance programs be designed on local levels so as to accommodate the restrictions.
Inasmuch as comparable, and not identical, services are required, the mere fact that public school children are provided on-the-premises Title I instruction does not necessarily create an obligation to make identical provision for private school children. 17 Congress expressly recognized that different and unique problems and needs might make it appropriate to utilize different programs in the private schools.  A requirement of identity would run directly counter to this recognition.  It was anticipated, to be sure, that one of the options open to the local agency in designing a suitable program for private school children was the provision of on-the-premises   instruction, 18 and on remand this is an option open to these petitioners and the local agency.  If, however, petitioners choose not to pursue this method, or if it turns out that state law prevents its use, three broad options still remain:
First, the State may approve plans that do not utilize on-the-premises private school Title I instruction but, nonetheless, still measure up to the requirement of comparability. Respondents appear to be arguing here that it is impossible to provide "comparable" services if the public schools receive on-the-premises Title I instruction while private school children are reached in an alternative method.  In support of their position, respondents argue: "The most effective type f services is that provided by a teacher or other specialist during regular school hours.  There is nothing comparable to the services of personnel except the services of personnel." Brief for Respondents 49.  In essence, respondents are asking this Court to hold, as a matter of federal law, that one mode of delivering remedial Title I services is superior to others.  To place on this Court, or on any federal court, the responsibility of ruling on the relative merits of various possible Title I programs seriously misreads the clear intent of Congress to leave decisions of that kind to the local and state agencies. It is unthinkable, both in terms of the legislative history and the basic structure of the federal judiciary, that the courts be given the function of measuring the comparative desirability of various pedagogical methods contemplated by the Act.
In light of the uncontested statutory proscription in Missouri against dual enrollment, it may well be a significant challenge to these petitioners and the local agencies in their State to devise plans that utilize on-the-premises public school instruction and, at the same time, forgo on-the-premises private school instruction.  We cannot say, however, that this is an impossibility; by relying upon "the initiative of school administrators to develop a program that would meet the Federal  requirements," Handbook 20, it may well be possible to develop and submit an acceptable plan under Title I.
Of course, the cooperation and assistance of the officials of the private school are obviously expected and required in order to design a program that is suitable for the private school. It is clear, however, that  the Act places ultimate responsibility and control with the public agency, and the overall program is not to be defeated simply because the private school refuses to participate unless the aid is offered in the particular form it requests.  The private school may refuse to participate if the local program does not meet with its approval.  But the result of this would then be that the private school's eligible children, the direct and intended beneficiaries of the Act, would lose.  The Act, however, does not give the private school a veto power over the program selected by the local agency. 19
In sum,   although it may be difficult, it is not impossible under the Act to devise and implement a legal local Title I program with comparable services despite the use of on-the-premises instruction in the public schools but not in the private schools.  On the facts of this case, petitioners have been approving plans that do not meet this requirement, and certainly, if public school children continue to receive on-the-premises Title I instruction, petitioners should not approve plans that fail to make a genuine effort to employ comparable alternative programs that make up for the lack of on-the-premises instruction for the nonpublic school children.  A program which provides instruction and equipment to the public school children and the same equipment but no instruction to the private school children cannot, on its face, be comparable. In order to equalize the level and quality of services offered, something must be substituted for the private school children.  The alternatives are numerous. 20 Providing nothing to fill the gap, however, is not among the acceptable alternatives.
Second,   if the State is unwilling or unable to develop a plan which is comparable, while using Title I teachers in public but not in private schools, it may develop and submit an acceptable plan which eliminates the use of on-the-premises instruction in the public schools and, instead, resorts to other means, such as neutral sites or summer programs that are less likely to give rise to the gross disparity present in this case.
Third, and undoubtedly least attractive for the educationally deprived children, is nonparticipation in the program.  Indeed,   under the Act, the Commissioner, subject to judicial review, 20 U. S. C. § 241k, may refuse to provide funds if the State does not make a bona fide effort to formulate programs with comparable services.  20 U. S. C. § 241j.
B. First Amendment.  The second major issue is whether the Establishment Clause of the First Amendment prohibits Missouri from sending public school teachers paid with Title I funds into parochial schools to teach remedial courses.  The Court of Appeals declined to pass on this significant issue, noting that since no order had been entered requiring on-the-premises parochial school instruction,  the matter was not ripe for review.  We agree.  As has been pointed out above, it is possible for the petitioners to comply with Title I without utilizing on-the-premises parochial school instruction.  Moreover, even if, on remand, the state and local agencies do exercise their discretion in favor of such instruction, the range of possibilities is a broad one and the First Amendment implications may vary according to the precise contours of the plan that is formulated.  For example, a program whereby a former parochial school teacher is paid with Title I funds to teach full time in a parochial school undoubtedly would present quite different problems than if a public school teacher, solely under public control, is sent into a parochial school to teach special remedial courses a few hours a week.  At this time we intimate no view as to the Establishment Clause effect of any particular program.
The task of deciding when the Establishment Clause is implicated in the context of parochial school aid has proved to be a delicate one for the Court.  Usually it requires a careful evaluation of the facts of the particular case.  See, e. g., Lemon v. Kurtzman, 403 U.S. 602 (1971),  and Tilton v. Richardson, 403 U.S. 672 (1971).   It would be wholly inappropriate for us to attempt to render an opinion on the First Amendment issue when no specific plan is before us.  A federal court does not sit to render a decision on hypothetical facts, and the Court of Appeals was correct in so concluding.
The Court of Appeals disposed of the case as follows:
"The case is remanded to the district court with directions to enjoin the defendants from further violation of Title I of ESEA, and it is further ordered that the court retain continuing jurisdiction of the litigation for the purpose of requiring, within reasonable time limits, the imposition and application of guidelines which will comport with Title I and its regulations. Such guidelines must provide the lawful means and machinery for effectively assuring educationally disadvantaged non-public school children in Missouri participation in a meaningful program as contemplated within the Act which is comparable in size, scope and opportunity to that provided eligible public school children. Such guidelines shall be incorporated into an appropriate injunctive decree by the district court."  475 F.2d, at 1355-1356 (footnotes omitted).
We affirm this disposition with the understanding that petitioners will be given the opportunity to submit guidelines insuring that only those projects that comply with the Act's requirements and this opinion will be approved and submitted to the Commission.  It is also to be understood that   the District Court's function is not to decide which method is best, or to order that a specific form of service be provided.  Rather, the District Court is simply to assure that the state and local agencies fulfill their part of the Title I contract if they choose to accept Title I funds.  Cf.  Lau v. Nichols, 414 U.S. 563 (1974). The comparability mandate is a broad one, and in order to implement the overriding concern with localized control of Title I programs, the District Court should make every effort to defer to the judgment of the petitioners and of the local agency.  Under the Act, respondents are entitled to comparable services, and they are, therefore, entitled to relief.  As we have stated repeatedly herein, they are not entitled to any particular form of service, and it is the role of the state and local agencies, and not of the federal courts, at least at this stage, to formulate a suitable plan.
On this basis, the judgment of the Court of Appeals is affirmed.
It is so ordered.
<concur author="MARSHALL_T" text="NOTEXT">
MR. JUSTICE MARSHALL concurs in the result.
<concur author="POWELL" text="TRUE">
CONCUR BY: POWELL; WHITE
MR. JUSTICE POWELL, concurring.
The Court holds that under Title I of the Elementary and Secondary Education Act of 1965, as amended, 20 U. S. C. § 241a et seq., federal courts may not ignore state-law prohibitions against the use of publicly employed teachers in private schools, ante, at 416-417, that Title I does not mandate on-the-premises instruction in private schools, ante, at 419, and that Title I does not require that the services to be provided in private schools be identical in all respects to those offered in public schools. Ante, at 420-421.  It is thus unnecessary to decide whether the assignment of publicly employed teachers to provide instruction in sectarian schools would contravene the Establishment Clause of   the First Amendment. Ante, at 415.  On that basis, I join the Court's opinion.  I would have serious misgivings about the constitutionality of a statute that required the utilization of public school teachers in sectarian schools.  See Committee for Public Education v. Nyquist, 413 U.S. 756 (1973).
<concur author="WHITE_B" text="TRUE">
MR. JUSTICE WHITE, concurring in the judgment.
As I read the majority opinion, the Court understands well enough that Title I funds are being used in Missouri to pay the salaries of teachers giving special instruction on public school premises, that the State is obligated to furnish comparable services to private schools, and that the State has not satisfied the comparability requirement.  It must do so if it is to continue to use Title I funds in the manner they are now being used.
The Court intimates no opinion as to whether using federal funds to pay teachers giving special instruction on private school premises would be constitutional. It suggests, however, that there may be other ways of satisfying the comparability requirement that the State should consider; and unless the State is being asked to chase rainbows, it is implied that there are programs and services comparable to on-the-premises instruction that the State could furnish private schools without violating the First Amendment. I would have thought that any such arrangement would be impermissible under the Court's recent cases construing the Establishment Clause.  Not having joined those opinions, I am pleasantly surprised by what appears to be a suggestion that federal funds may in some respects be used to finance nonsectarian instruction of students in private elementary and secondary schools.  If this is the case, I suggest that the Court should say so expressly.  Failing that, however, I concur in the judgment.
<dissent author="DOUGLAS" text="TRUE">
DISSENT BY: DOUGLAS
MR. JUSTICE DOUGLAS, dissenting.
The case comes to us in an attractive posture, as the Act of Congress is in terms aimed to help "educationally deprived" children, whether they are in public or parochial schools, and I fear the judiciary has been seduced.  But we must remember that "the propriety of a legislature's purposes may not immunize from further scrutiny a law which either has a primary effect that advances religion, or which fosters excessive entanglements between Church and State." Committee for Public Education v. Nyquist, 413 U.S. 756, 774.
All education in essence is aimed to help children, whether bright or retarded. Schools do not exist -- whether public or parochial -- to keep teachers employed.  Education is a skein with many threads -- from classical Greek to Latin, to grammar, to philosophy, to science, to athletics, to religion.  There might well be political motivation to use federal funds to make up deficits in any part of a school's budget or to strengthen it by financing all or a part of any sector of educational activity.
There are some who think it constitutionally wise to do so; and others who think it is constitutionally permissible.  But the First Amendment says: "Congress shall make no law respecting an establishment of religion." In common understanding there is no surer way of "establishing" an institution than by financing it.  That was true at the time of the adoption of the First Amendment. Madison, one of its foremost authors, fought the battle in Virginia where the per capita minimal levy on each person was no more than three pence.  Yet if the State could finance a church at three pence per capita, the principle of "establishment" would be approved and there would be no limit to the amount of money the Government could add to church coffers.  That was the teaching of his Remonstrance. 1 As Mr. Justice Black stated it, "no tax in any amount, large or small, can be levied to support any religious activities or institutions, whatever they may be called, or whatever form they may adopt to teach or practice religion." Everson v. Board of Education, 330 U.S. 1, 16. 2
Parochial schools are adjuncts of the church established at a time when state governments were highly discriminatory against some sects by introducing religious training in the public schools. The tale has been told often; 3 and there is no need to repeat it here.  Parochial schools are tied to the proclamation and inculcation of a particular religious faith -- sometimes Catholic, sometimes Presbyterian, sometimes Anglican, sometimes Lutheran, and so on.
The emanations from the Court's opinion are, as suggested by MR. JUSTICE WHITE, at war with our prior decisions.  Federal financing of an apparently nonsectarian aspect of parochial school activities, if allowed, is not even a subtle evasion of First Amendment prohibitions.  The parochial school is a unit; its budget is a unit; pouring in federal funds for what seems to be a nonsectarian phase of parochial school activities "establishes" the school so that in effect, if not in purpose, it becomes stronger financially and better able to proselytize its particular faith by having more funds left over for that objective.  Allowing the State to finance the secular part of a sectarian school's program "makes a grave constitutional decision turn merely on cost accounting and bookkeeping entries." Lemon v. Kurtzman, 403 U.S. 602, 641 (DOUGLAS, J., concurring).
Nor could the program here be immunized from scrutiny under the Establishment Clause by portraying this aid as going to the children rather than to the sectarian schools.  See Committee for Public Education v. Nyquist, supra, at 781 et seq.  That argument deserves no more weight in the Establishment Clause context than it received under the Equal Protection Clause of the Fourteenth Amendment, with respect to which we summarily affirmed decisions striking down state schemes to circumvent the constitutional requirement of racial integration in public schools granting tuition aid to parents who sent their children to segregated private schools.  Poindexter v. Louisiana Financial Assistance Comm'n , 275 F.Supp. 833,  aff'd, 389 U.S. 571, and 296 F.Supp. 686, aff'd, 393 U.S. 17 . And see Griffin v. County School Board, 377 U.S. 218.
The present case is plainly not moot; a case or controversy exists; and it is clear that if the traditional First Amendment barriers are to be maintained, no program serving students in parochial schools could be designed under this Act -- whether regular school hours are used, or after-school hours, or weekend hours.  The plain truth is that under the First Amendment, as construed to this day, the Act is unconstitutional to the extent it supports sectarian schools, whether directly or through its students.
We should say so now, and save the endless hours and efforts which hopeful people will expend in an effort to constitutionalize what is impossible without a constitutional amendment.
