OPINION
MR. JUSTICE BRENNAN delivered the opinion of the Court.
Social Security Act benefits based on the earnings of a deceased husband and father covered by the Act are payable, with some limitations, both to the widow and to the couple's minor children in her care.  § 202 (g) of the Social Security Act, as amended, 42 U. S. C. § 402 (g). 1 Such benefits are payable on the basis of the   earnings of a deceased wife and mother covered by the Act,  however, only to the minor children and not to the widower. The question in this case is whether this gender-based distinction violates the Due Process Clause of the Fifth Amendment. 2
A three-judge District Court for the District of New Jersey held that the different treatment of men and women mandated by § 402 (g) unjustifiably discriminated against female wage earners by affording them less protection for their survivors than is provided to male employees. 367 F.Supp. 981, 991 (1973). We noted probable jurisdiction, 419 U.S. 822 (1974). We affirm.
I
Appellee Stephen C. Wiesenfeld and Paula Polatschek were married on November   15, 1970.  Paula, who worked as a teacher for five years before her marriage, continued teaching after her marriage. Each year she worked, maximum social security contributions were deducted from her salary. 3 Paula's earnings were the couple's principal source of support during the marriage, being substantially larger than those of appellee. 4
On June 5, 1972, Paula died in childbirth.  Appellee was left with the sole responsibility for the care of their infant son, Jason Paul.  Shortly after his wife's death, Stephen Wiesenfeld applied at the Social Security office in New Brunswick, N. J., for social security survivors' benefits for himself and his son.  He did obtain benefits for his son under 42 U. S. C. § 402 (d) (1970 ed. and Supp. III), 5 and received for Jason $ 206.90 per month   until September 1972, and $ 248.30 per month thereafter.  However, appellee was told that he was not eligible for benefits for himself, because § 402 (g) benefits were available only to women. 6 If he had been a woman, he would   have received the same amount as his son as long as he was not working, see 42 U. S. C. §§ 402 (d)(2) and (g)(2), and, if working, that amount reduced by $ 1 for every $ 2 earned annually above $ 2,400.  42 U. S. C. §§ 403 (b) and (f). 7
Appellee filed this suit in February 1973, 8 claiming jurisdiction under 28 U. S. C. § 1331, on behalf of himself and of all widowers similarly situated. 9 He sought a declaration that § 402 (g) is unconstitutional to the extent that men and women are treated differently, an injunction restraining appellant from denying benefits under § 402 (g) solely on the basis of sex, and payment of past benefits commencing with June 1972, the month of the original application. Cross motions for summary judgment were filed.  After the three-judge court determined that it had jurisdiction, 10 it granted summary judgment in favor of appellee, and issued an order giving appellee the relief he sought.
II
The gender-based distinction made by § 402 (g) is indistinguishable from that invalidated in Frontiero v. Richardson, 411 U.S. 677 (1973).Frontiero involved statutes which provided the wife of a male serviceman with dependents' benefits but not the husband of a servicewoman unless she proved that she supplied more than one-half of her husband's support. The Court held that the statutory scheme violated the right to equal protection secured by the Fifth Amendment. Schlesinger v. Ballard, 419 U.S. 498 (1975), explained: "In . . . Frontiero the challenged  based on sex  premised on overbroad generalizations that could not be tolerated under the Constitution. . . .   assumption . . . was that female spouses of servicemen would normally be dependent upon their husbands, while male spouses of servicewomen would not." Id., at 507. A virtually identical "archaic and overbroad" generalization, id., at 508, "not . . . tolerated under the Constitution" underlies the distinction drawn by § 402 (g), namely, that male workers' earnings are vital to the support of their families, while the earnings of female wage earners do not significantly contribute to their families' support. 11
Section 402 (g) was added to the Social Security Act in 1939 as one of a large number of amendments designed to "afford more adequate protection to the family as a unit." H. R. Rep. No. 728, 76th Cong., 1st Sess., 7 (1939).  Monthly benefits were provided to wives, children, widows, orphans, and surviving dependent parents of covered workers.  Ibid.  However, children of covered female workers were eligible for survivors' benefits only in limited circumstances, see n. 5, supra, and no benefits whatever were made available to husbands or widowers on the basis of their wives' covered employment. 12
Underlying the 1939 scheme was the principle that " a social-insurance plan the primary purpose is to pay benefits in accordance with the probable needs of the beneficiaries rather than to make payments to the estate of a deceased person regardless of whether or not he leaves dependents." H. R. Rep. No. 728, supra, at 7.  (Emphasis supplied.) It was felt that " payment of these survivorship benefits and supplements for the wife of an annuitant are . . . in keeping with the principle of social insurance. . . ." Ibid.  Thus, the framers of the Act legislated on the "then generally accepted presumption that a man is responsible for the support of his wife and children." D. Hoskins & L. Bixby, Women and Social Security: Law and Policy in Five Countries, Social Security Administration Research Report No. 42, p. 77 (1973). 13
Obviously, the notion that men are more likely than women to be the primary supporters of their spouses and children is not entirely without empirical support.  See Kahn v. Shevin, 416 U.S. 351, 354 n. 7 (1974). But such a gender-based generalization cannot suffice to justify the denigration of the efforts of women who do work and whose earnings contribute significantly to their families' support.
Section 402 (g) clearly operates, as did the statutes invalidated by our judgment in Frontiero, to deprive women of protection for their families which men receive as a result of their employment.  Indeed, the classification here is in some ways more pernicious.  First, it was open to the servicewoman under the statutes invalidated in Frontiero to prove that her husband was in fact dependent upon her.  Here, Stephen Wiesenfeld was not given the opportunity to show, as may well have been the case, that he was dependent upon his wife for his support, or that, had his wife lived, she would have remained at work while he took over care of the child.  Second, in this case social security taxes were deducted from Paula's salary  during the years in which she worked.  Thus, she not only failed to receive for her family the same protection which a similarly situated male worker would have received, but she also was deprived of a portion of her own earnings in order to contribute to the fund out of which benefits would be paid to others.  Since the Constitution forbids the gender-based differentiation premised upon assumptions as to dependency made in the statutes before us in Frontiero,   the Constitution also forbids the gender-based differentiation that results in the efforts of female workers required to pay social security taxes producing less protection for their families than is produced by the efforts of men.
III
Appellant seeks to avoid this conclusion with two related arguments.  First, he claims that because social security benefits are not compensation for work done, Congress is not obliged to provide a covered female employee with the same benefits as it provides to a male. Second, he contends that § 402 (g) was "reasonably designed to offset the adverse economic situation of women by providing a widow with financial assistance to supplement or substitute for her own efforts in the marketplace," Brief for Appellant 14, and therefore does not contravene the equal protection guarantee.
A
Appellant relies for the first proposition primarily on Flemming v. Nestor, 363 U.S. 603 (1960). We held in Flemming that   the interest of a covered employee in future social security benefits is "noncontractual," because "each worker's benefits, though flowing from the contributions he made to the national economy while actively employed, are   not dependent on the degree to which he was called upon to support the system by taxation." Id., at 609-610.Appellant apparently contends that since benefits derived from the social security program do not correlate necessarily with contributions made to the program, a covered employee has no right whatever to be treated equally with other employees as regards the benefits which flow from his or her employment.
We do not see how the fact that social security benefits are "noncontractual" can sanction differential protection for covered employees which is solely gender based.  From the outset, social security old age, survivors', and disability (OASDI) benefits have been "afforded as a matter of right, related to past participation in the productive processes of the country." Final Report of the Advisory Council on Social Security 17 (1938).  It is true that social security benefits are not necessarily related directly to tax contributions, since the OASDI system is structured to provide benefits in part according to presumed need. 14 For this reason, Flemming held that the position of a covered employee "cannot be soundly analogized to that of the holder of an annuity, whose right to benefits is bottomed on his contractual premium payments." 363 U.S., at 610. But the fact remains that   the statutory right to benefits is directly related to years worked and amount earned by a covered employee, 15 and not to the need of the beneficiaries directly.  Since OASDI benefits do depend significantly upon the participation in the work force of a covered employee, and since only covered employees and not others are required to pay taxes toward the system, benefits must be distributed according to classifications which do not without sufficient justification differentiate among covered employees solely on the basis of sex.
B
Appellant seeks to characterize the classification here as one reasonably designed to compensate women beneficiaries as a group for the economic difficulties which still confront women who seek to support themselves and their families.  The Court held in Kahn v. Shevin, 416 U.S., at 355, that   a statute "reasonably designed to further the state policy of cushioning the financial impact of spousal loss upon the sex for which that loss imposes a disproportionately heavy burden" can survive an equal protection attack.  See also Schlesinger v. Ballard, 419 U.S. 498 (1975). But the mere recitation of a benign, compensatory purpose is not an automatic shield which protects against any inquiry into the actual purposes underlying a statutory scheme. 16 Here, it is apparent both from the statutory scheme itself and from the legislative history of § 402 (g) that Congress' purpose in providing benefits to young widows with children was not to provide an income to women who were, because of economic discrimination, unable to provide for themselves.  Rather, § 402 (g), linked as it is directly to responsibility for minor  children, was intended to permit women to elect not to work and to devote themselves to the care of children. Since this purpose in no way is premised upon any special disadvantages of women, it cannot serve to justify a gender-based distinction which diminishes the protection afforded to women who do work.
That the purpose behind § 402 (g) is to provide children   deprived of one parent with the opportunity for the personal attention of the other could not be more clear in the legislative history.  The Advisory Council on Social Security,  which developed the 1939 amendments, said explicitly that " payments  are intended as supplements to the orphans' benefits with the purpose of enabling the widow to remain at home and care for the children." Final Report of the Advisory Council on Social Security 31 (1938).  (Emphasis supplied.) In 1971, a new Advisory Council, considering amendments to eliminate the various gender-based distinctions in the OASDI structure, reiterated this understanding: "Present law provides benefits for the mother of young . . . children . . . if she chooses to stay home and care for the children instead of working.  In the Council's judgment, it is desirable to allow a woman who is left with the care of the children the choice of whether to stay at home to care for the children or to work." 1971 Advisory Council on Social Security, Reports on the Old-Age, Survivors, and Disability Insurance and Medicare Programs 30 (hereinafter 1971 Reports).  (Emphasis supplied.)
Indeed, consideration was given in 1939 to extending benefits to all widows regardless of whether or not there were minor children. The proposal was rejected, apparently because it was felt that young widows without children can be expected to work, while middle-aged widows "are likely to have more savings than younger widows and many of them have children who are grown and able to help them." Report of the Social Security Board, H. R. Doc. No. 110, 76th Cong., 1st Sess., 7-8 (1939).  See also Final Report of the Advisory Council on Social Security 31 (1938); Hearings on the Social Security Act Amendments of 1939 before the House Committee on Ways and Means, 76th Cong., 1st Sess., 61, 1217, 2169-2170; H. R. Rep. No. 728, 76th Cong., 1st Sess., 36-37 (1939). Thus, Congress decided not to provide benefits to all widows even though it was recognized that some of them would have serious problems in the job market.  Instead, it provided benefits only to those women who had responsibility for minor children, because it believed that they should not be required to work.
The whole structure of survivors' benefits conforms to this articulated purpose. Widows without minor children obtain no benefits on the basis of their husband's earnings until they reach age 60 or, in certain instances of disability, age 50. 42 U. S. C. §§ 402 (e)(1) and (5).  Further,  benefits under § 402 (g) cease when all children of a beneficiary are no longer eligible for children's benefits. 17 If Congress were concerned with providing women with benefits because of economic discrimination, it would be entirely irrational to except those women who had spent many years at home rearing children, since those women are most likely to be without the skills required to succeed in the job market. See Walker, Sex Discrimination in Government Benefit Programs, 23 Hastings L. J. 277, 278-279 (1971); Hearings, supra, at 61 (remarks of Dr. Altemeyer, Chairman, Social Security Board); Report of the Committee on Social Insurance and Taxes, The President's Commission on the Status of Women 31-32 (1963).  Similarly, the Act now provides benefits to a surviving divorced wife who is the parent of a covered employee's child, regardless of how long she was married to the deceased or of whether she or the child was dependent upon the employee for support.  §§ 402 (g), 416 (d)(3).  Yet, a divorced wife who is not the mother of a child entitled to children's benefits is eligible for benefits only if she meets other eligibility requirements and was married to the covered employee for 20 years.  §§ 402 (b) and (e), 416 (d). 18 Once again, this distinction among women is explicable only because Congress was not concerned in § 402 (g) with the employment problems of women generally but with the principle that children of covered employees are entitled to the personal attention of the   surviving parent if that parent chooses not to work.
Given the purpose of enabling the surviving parent to remain at home to care for a child, the gender-based distinction of § 402 (g) is entirely irrational.  The classification discriminates among surviving children solely on the basis of the sex of the surviving parent.  Even in the typical family hypothesized by the Act, in which the husband is supporting the family and the mother is caring for the children, this result makes no sense.  The fact that a man is working while there is a wife at home does not mean that he would, or should be required to, continue to work if his wife dies.  It is no less important for a child to be cared for by its sole surviving parent when that parent is male rather than female. And   a father, no less than a mother, has a constitutionally protected right to the "companionship, care, custody, and management" of "the children he has sired and raised,  undeniably warrants deference and, absent a powerful countervailing interest, protection." Stanley v. Illinois, 405 U.S. 645, 651 (1972). Further, to the extent that women who work when they have sole responsibility for children encounter special problems, it would seem that men with sole responsibility for children will encounter the same child-care related problems. 19 Stephen Wiesenfeld, for example, found that providing adequate care for his infant son impeded his ability to work, see n. 7, supra.
Finally, to the extent that Congress legislated on the presumption that women as a group would choose to forgo work to care for children while men would not, 20   the statutory structure, independent of the gender-based classification,   would deny or reduce benefits to those men who conform to the presumed norm and are not hampered by their child-care responsibilities.  Benefits under § 402 (g) decrease with increased earnings, see, supra, at 641.  According to appellant, "the bulk of male workers would receive no benefits in any event," Brief for Appellant 17 n. 11, because they earn too much.  Thus, the gender-based distinction is gratuitous; without it, the statutory scheme would only provide benefits to those men who are in fact similarly situated to the women the statute aids.
Since the gender-based classification of § 402 (g) cannot be explained as an attempt to provide for the special problems of women, it is indistinguishable from the classification held invalid in Frontiero.  Like the statutes there,  " providing dissimilar treatment for men and women who are . . . similarly situated, the challenged section violates the  Clause." Reed v. Reed, 404 U.S. 71, 77 (1971).
Affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE DOUGLAS took no part in the consideration or decision of this case.
<concur author="POWELL" text="TRUE">
CONCUR BY: POWELL; REHNQUIST
MR. JUSTICE POWELL, with whom THE CHIEF JUSTICE joins, concurring.
I concur in the judgment and generally in the opinion of the Court.  But I would identify the impermissible discrimination effected by § 402 (g) somewhat more narrowly than the Court does.  Social Security is designed, certainly in this context, for the protection of the family.  Although it lacks the contractual attributes of insurance or an annuity, Flemming v. Nestor, 363 U.S. 603 (1960), it is a contributory system and millions of wage earners depend on it to provide basic protection for their families in the event of death  or disability.
Many women are the principal wage earners for their families, and they participate in the Social Security system on exactly the same basis as men. When the mother is a principal wage earner, the family may suffer as great an economic deprivation upon her death as would occur upon the death of a father wage earner. It is immaterial whether the surviving parent elects to assume primary child care responsibility rather than work, or whether other arrangements are made for child care.  The statutory scheme provides benefits both to a surviving mother who remains at home and to one who works at low wages. A surviving father may have the same need for benefits as a surviving mother. * The statutory scheme therefore impermissibly discriminates against a female wage earner because it provides her family less protection than it   provides that of a male wage earner, even though the family needs may be identical.  I find no legitimate governmental interest that supports this gender classification.
<concur author="REHNQUIST" text="TRUE">
MR. JUSTICE REHNQUIST, concurring in the result.
Part III-B of the Court's opinion contains a thorough examination of the legislative history and statutory context which define the role and purpose of § 402 (g).  I believe the Court's examination convincingly demonstrates that the only purpose of § 402 (g) is to make it possible for children of deceased contributing workers to have the personal care and attention of a surviving parent, should that parent desire to remain in the home with the child.  Moreover, the Court's opinion establishes that the Government's proffered legislative purpose is so totally at odds with the context and history of § 402 (g) that it cannot serve as a basis for judging whether the statutory distinction between men and women rationally serves a valid legislative objective.
This being the case, I see no necessity for reaching the issue of whether the statute's purported discrimination against female workers violates the Fifth Amendment as applied in Frontiero v. Richardson, 411 U.S. 677 (1973). I would simply conclude, as does the Court in Part III-B of its opinion, that the restriction of § 402 (g) benefits to surviving mothers does not rationally serve any valid legislative purpose, including that for which § 402 (g) was obviously designed.  This is so because it is irrational to distinguish between mothers and fathers when the sole question is whether a child of a deceased contributing worker should have the opportunity to receive the fulltime attention of the only parent remaining to it.  To my mind, that should be the end of the matter.  I therefore concur in the result.
