OPINION
MR. JUSTICE POWELL delivered the opinion of the Court.
In a criminal trial, defense counsel sought to impeach the credibility of key prosecution witnesses by testimony of a defense investigator regarding statements previously obtained from the witnesses by the investigator. The question presented here is whether in these circumstances a federal trial court may compel the defense to reveal the relevant portions of the investigator's report for the prosecution's use in cross-examining him. The United States Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit concluded that it cannot. 501 F. 2d 146. We granted certiorari, 419 U.S. 1120 (1975), and now reverse.
I
Respondent was tried and convicted on charges arising from an armed robbery of a federally insured bank. The only significant evidence linking him to the crime was the identification testimony of two witnesses, a bank teller and a salesman who was in the bank during the robbery. 1 Respondent offered an alibi but, as the Court of Appeals recognized, 501 F.2d, at 150, his strongest defense centered around attempts to discredit these eyewitnesses. Defense efforts to impeach them gave rise to the events that led to this decision.
In the course of preparing respondent's defense, an investigator for the defense interviewed both witnesses and preserved the essence of those conversations in a written report. When the witnesses testified for the prosecution, respondent's counsel relied on the report in conducting their cross-examination. Counsel asked the bank teller whether he recalled having told the investigator that he had seen only the back of the man he identified as respondent. The witness replied that he did not remember making such a statement. He was allowed, despite defense counsel's initial objection, to refresh his recollection by referring to a portion of the investigator's report. The prosecutor also was allowed to see briefly the relevant portion of the report. 2 The witness thereafter testified that although the report indicated that he told the investigator he had seen only respondent's back, he in fact had seen more than that and continued to insist that respondent was the bank robber.
The other witness acknowledged on cross-examination that he too had spoken to the defense investigator. Respondent's counsel twice inquired whether he told the investigator that "all blacks looked alike" to him, and in each instance the witness denied having made such a statement. The prosecution again sought inspection of the relevant portion of the investigator's report, and respondent's counsel again objected. The court declined to order disclosure at that time, but ruled that it would be required if the investigator testified as to the witnesses' alleged statements from the witness stand. 3 The court further advised that it would examine the investigator's report in camera  and would excise all reference to matters not relevant to the precise statements at issue.
After the prosecution completed its case, respondent called the investigator as a defense witness. The court reiterated that a copy of the report, inspected and edited in camera,  would have to be submitted to Government counsel at the completion of the investigator's impeachment testimony. When respondent's counsel stated that he did not intend to produce the report, the court ruled that the investigator would not be allowed to testify about his interviews with the witnesses. 4
The Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit, while acknowledging that the trial court's ruling constituted a "very limited and seemingly judicious restriction," 501 F. 2d, at 151, nevertheless considered it reversible error. Citing United States  v. Wright,  160 U.S. App. D.C. 57, 68, 489 F. 2d 1181, 1192 (1973), the court found that the Fifth Amendment prohibited the disclosure condition imposed in this case. The court further held that Fed. Rule Crim. Proc. 16, while framed exclusively in terms of pretrial discovery, precluded prosecutorial discovery at trial as well.  501 F. 2d, at 157; accord, United States  v. Wright, supra, at 66-67, 489 F. 2d, at 1190-1191. In each respect, we think the court erred.
II
The dual aim of our criminal justice system is "that guilt shall not escape or innocence suffer," Berger  v. United States,  295 U.S. 78, 88 (1935).To this end, we have placed our confidence in the adversary system, entrusting to it the primary responsibility for developing relevant facts on which a determination of guilt or innocence can be made. See United States  v. Nixon,  418 U.S. 683, 709 (1974); Williams  v. Florida,  399 U.S. 78, 82 (1970); Elkins  v. United States,  364 U.S. 206, 234 (1960) (Frankfurter, J., dissenting).
While the adversary system depends primarily on the parties for the presentation and exploration of relevant facts, the judiciary is not limited to the role of a referee or supervisor. Its compulsory processes stand available to require the presentation of evidence in court or before a grand jury.  United States  v. Nixon, supra;Kastigar  v. United States, 406 U.S. 441, 443-444 (1972);Murphy v. Waterfront Comm'n, 378 U.S. 52, 93-94 (1964) (WHITE, J., concurring). As we recently observed in United States  v. Nixon, supra, at 709: S
"We have elected to employ an adversary system of criminal justice in which the parties contest all issues before a court of law. The need to develop all relevant facts in the adversary system is both fundamental and comprehensive. The ends of criminal justice would be defeated if judgments were to be founded on a partial or speculative presentation of the facts. The very integrity of the judicial system and public confidence in the system depend on full disclosure of all the facts, within the framework of the rules of evidence. To ensure that justice is done, it is imperative to the function of courts that compulsory process be available for the production of evidence needed either by the prosecution or by the defense."I
Decisions of this Court repeatedly have recognized the federal judiciary's inherent power to require the prosecution to produce the previously recorded statements of its witnesses so that the defense may get the full benefit of cross-examination and the truth-finding process may be enhanced. See, e.g., Jencks  v. United States,  353 U.S. 657 (1957); 5 Gordon  v. United States,  344 U.S. 414 (1953); Goldman  v. United States,  316 U.S. 129 (1942); Palermo  v. United States,  360 U.S. 343, 361 (1959) (BRENNAN, J., concurring in result). At issue here is whether, in a proper case, the prosecution can call upon that same power for production of witness statements that facilitate "full disclosure of all the  facts." United States  v. Nixon, supra, at 709.
In this case, the defense proposed to call its investigator to impeach the identification testimony of the prosecution's eyewitnesses. It was evident from cross-examination that the investigator would testify that each witness' recollection of the appearance of the individual identified as respondent was considerably less clear at an earlier time than it was at trial. It also appeared that the investigator and one witness differed even as to what the witness told him during the interview. The investigator's contemporaneous report might provide critical insight into the issues of credibility that the investigator's testimony would raise. It could assist the jury in determining the extent to which the investigator's testimony actually discredited the prosecution's witnesses. If, for example, the report failed to mention the purported statement of one witness that "all blacks looked alike," the jury might disregard the investigator's version altogether. On the other hand, if this statement appeared in the contemporaneously recorded report, it would tend strongly to corroborate the investigator's version of the interview and to diminish substantially the reliability of that witness' identification. 6
It was therefore apparent to the trial judge that the investigator's report was highly relevant to the critical issue of credibility. In this context, production of the report might substantially enhance "the search for truth," Williams  v. Florida,  399 U.S., at 82. We must determine whether compelling its production was precluded by some privilege available to the defense in the circumstances of this case.
III
A
The Court of Appeals concluded that the Fifth Amendment renders criminal discovery "basically a one-way street." 501 F. 2d, at 154. Like many generalizations in constitutional law, this one is too broad. The relationship between the accused's Fifth Amendment rights and the prosecution's ability to discover materials at trial must be identified in a more discriminating manner.
The Fifth Amendment privilege against compulsory self-incrimination is an "intimate and personal one," which protects "a private inner sanctum of individual feeling and thought and proscribes state intrusion to extract self-condemnation." Couch  v. United States,  409 U.S. 322, 327 (1973); see also Bellis  v. United States,  417 U.S. 85, 90-91 (1974);United States  v. White,  322 U.S. 694, 698 (1944).As we noted in Couch, supra, at 328, the "privilege is a personal  privilege: it adheres basically to the   person, not to information that may incriminate him." 7
In this instance disclosure of the relevant portions of the defense investigator's report would not impinge on the fundamental values protected by the Fifth Amendment. The court's order was limited to statements allegedly made by third parties who were available as witnesses to both the prosecution and the defense. Respondent did not prepare the report, and there is no suggestion that the portions subject to the disclosure order reflected any information that he conveyed to the investigator. The fact that these statements of third parties were elicited by a defense investigator on respondent's behalf does not convert them into respondent's personal communications. Requiring their production from the investigator therefore would not in any sense compel respondent to be a witness against himself or extort communications from him.
We thus conclude that the Fifth Amendment privilege against compulsory self-incrimination, being personal to the defendant, does not extend to the testimony or statements of third parties called as witnesses at trial. The Court of Appeals' reliance on this constitutional guarantee as a bar to the disclosure here ordered was misplaced.
B
The Court of Appeals also held that Fed. Rule Crim. Proc. 16 deprived the trial court of the power to order disclosure of the relevant portions of the investigator's report. 8 Acknowledging that the Rule appears to control pretrial discovery only, the court nonetheless determined that its reference to the Jencks Act, 18 U.S.C.  § 3500, signaled an intention that Rule 16 should control trial practice as well. We do not agree.
Both the language and history of Rule 16 indicate that it addresses only pretrial discovery. Rule 16(f) requires that a motion for discovery be filed "within 10 days after arraignment or... such reasonable later time as the court may permit," and further commands that it include all relief sought by the movant. When this provision is viewed in light of the Advisory Committee's admonition that it is designed to encourage promptness in filing and to enable the district court to avoid unnecessary delay or multiplication of motions, see Advisory Committee's Notes on Rule 16, 18 U.S.C. App., p. 4494, the pretrial focus of the Rule becomes apparent. The Government's right of discovery arises only after the defendant has successfully sought discovery under subsections (a)(2) or (b) and is confined to matters "which the defendant intends to produce at the trial." Fed. Rule Crim. Proc. 16(c). This hardly suggests any intention that the Rule would limit the court's power to order production once trial has begun. 9 Finally, the Advisory Committee's Notes emphasize its pretrial character. Those notes repeatedly characterize the Rule as a provision governing pretrial disclosure, never once suggesting that it was intended to constrict a district court's control over evidentiary questions arising at trial.  18 U.S.C. App., pp. 4493-4495.
The incorporation of the Jencks Act limitation on the pretrial right of discovery provided by Rule 16 does not express a contrary intent.   It only restricts the defendant's right of pretrial discovery in a manner that reconciles that provision with the Jencks Act limitation on the trial court's discretion over evidentiary matters. It certainly does not convert Rule 16 into a general limitation on the trial court's broad discretion as to evidentiary questions at trial. Cf.  Giles  v. Maryland,  386 U.S. 66, 101 (1967) (Fortas, J., concurring in judgment). 10 We conclude, therefore, that Rule 16 imposes no constraint on the District Court's power to condition the impeachment testimony of respondent's witness on the production of the relevant portions of his investigative report. In extending the Rule into the trial context, the Court of Appeals erred.
IV
Respondent contends further that the work-product doctrine exempts the investigator's report from disclosure at trial. While we agree that this doctrine applies to criminal litigation as well as civil, we find its protection unavailable in this case.
The work-product doctrine, recognized by this Court in Hickman  v. Taylor,  329 U.S. 495 (1947), reflects the strong "public policy underlying the orderly prosecution and defense of legal claims." Id., at 510;   see also id.,  at 514-515 (Jackson, J., concurring). As the Court there observed: S
"Historically, a lawyer is an officer of the court and is bound to work for the advancement of justice while faithfully protecting the rightful interests of his clients. In performing his various duties, however, it is essential that a lawyer work with a certain degree of privacy, free from unnecessary intrusion by opposing parties and their counsel. Proper preparation of a client's case demands that he assemble information, sift what he considers to be the relevant from the irrelevant facts, prepare his legal theories and plan his strategy without undue and needless interference. That is the historical and the necessary way in which lawyers act within the framework of our system of jurisprudence to promote justice and to protect their clients' interests. This work is reflected, of course, in interviews, statements, memoranda, correspondence, briefs, mental impressions, personal beliefs, and countless other tangible and intangible ways - aptly though roughly termed by the Circuit Court of Appeals in this case as the 'work product of the lawyer.' Were such materials open to opposing counsel on mere demand, much of what is now put down in writing would remain unwritten. An attorney's thoughts, heretofore inviolate, would not be his own. Inefficiency, unfairness and sharp practices would inevitably develop in the giving of legal advice and in the preparation of cases for trial. The effect on the legal profession would be demoralizing. And the interests of the clients and the cause of justice would be poorly served." Id.,  at 510-511.I
The Court therefore recognized a qualified privilege for certain materials prepared by an attorney "acting for his client in anticipation of litigation." Id.,  at 508. 11 See generally 4 J. Moore, Federal Practice p26.63 (2d ed. 1974); E. Cleary, McCormick on Evidence 204-209 (2d ed. 1972); Note, Developments in the Law -- Discovery, 74 Harv. L. Rev. 940, 1027-1046 (1961).
Although the work-product doctrine most frequently is asserted as a bar to discovery in civil litigation, its role in assuring the proper functioning of the criminal justice system is even more vital. The interests of society and the accused in obtaining a fair and accurate resolution of the question of guilt or innocence demand that adequate safeguards assure the thorough preparation and presentation of each side of the case. 12
At its core, the work-product doctrine shelters the mental processes of the attorney, providing a privileged area within which he can analyze and prepare his client's case. But the doctrine is an intensely practical one, grounded in the realities of litigation in our adversary system. One of those realities is that attorneys often must rely on the assistance of investigators and other agents in the compilation of materials in preparation for trial. It is therefore necessary that the doctrine protect material prepared by agents for the attorney as well as those prepared by the attorney himself. 13 Moreover, the concerns reflected in the work-product doctrine do not disappear once trial has begun. Disclosure of an attorney's efforts at trial, as surely as disclosure during pretrial discovery, could disrupt the orderly development and presentation of his case. We need not, however, undertake here to delineate the scope of the doctrine at trial, for in this instance it is clear that the defense waived such right as may have existed to invoke its protections.
The privilege derived from the work-product doctrine is not absolute. Like other qualified privileges, it may be waived. Here respondent sought to adduce the testimony of the investigator and contrast his recollection of the contested statements with that of the prosecution's witnesses. Respondent, by electing to present the investigator as a witness, waived the privilege with respect to matters covered in his testimony. 14 Respondent can no more advance the work-product doctrine to sustain a unilateral testimonial use of work-product materials than he could elect to testify in his own behalf and thereafter assert his Fifth Amendment privilege to resist cross-examination on matters reasonably related to those brought out in direct examination. See, e.g., McGautha  v. California,  402 U.S. 183, 215 (1971). 15
V
Finally, our examination of the record persuades us that the District Court properly exercised its discretion in this instance. The court authorized no general "fishing expedition" into the defense files or indeed even into the defense investigator's report. Cf.  United States  v. Wright,  160 U.S. App. D.C. 57, 489 F. 2d 1181 (1973).Rather, its considered ruling was quite limited in scope, opening to prosecution scrutiny only the portion of the report that related to the testimony the investigator would offer to discredit the witnesses' identification testimony. The court further afforded respondent the maximum opportunity to assist in avoiding unwarranted disclosure or to exercise an informed choice to call for the investigator's testimony and thereby open his report to examination.
The court's preclusion sanction was an entirely proper method of assuring compliance with its order.  Respondent's argument that this ruling deprived him of the Sixth Amendment rights to compulsory process and cross-examination misconceives the issue. The District Court did not bar the investigator's testimony. Cf.  Washington  v. Texas,  388 U.S. 14, 19 (1967). It merely prevented respondent from presenting to the jury a partial view of the credibility issue by adducing the investigator's testimony and thereafter refusing to disclose the contemporaneous report that might offer further critical insights. The Sixth Amendment does not confer the right to present testimony free from the legitimate demands of the adversarial system; one cannot invoke the Sixth Amendment as a justification for presenting what might have been a half-truth. Deciding, as we do, that it was within the court's discretion to assure that the jury would hear the full testimony of the investigator rather than a truncated portion favorable to respondent, we think it would be artificial indeed to deprive the court of the power to effectuate that judgment. Nor do we find constitutional significance in the fact that the court in this instance was able to exclude the testimony in advance rather than receive it in evidence and thereafter charge the jury to disregard it when respondent's counsel refused, as he said he would, to produce the report. 16
The judgment of the Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit is therefore
Reversed.
MR. JUSTICE DOUGLAS took no part in the consideration or decision of this case.
<concur author="WHITE_B" text="TRUE">
CONCUR BY: WHITE
MR. JUSTICE WHITE, with whom MR. JUSTICE REHNQUIST joins, concurring.
I concur in the judgment and in Parts II, III, and V of the opinion of the Court. I write only because of misgivings about the meaning of Part IV of the opinion. The Court appears to have held in Part IV of its opinion only that whatever protection the defense investigator's notes of his interviews with witnesses might otherwise have had, that protection would have been lost when the investigator testified about those interviews. With this I agree also. It seems to me more sensible, however, to decide what protection these notes had in the first place before reaching the "waiver" issue. Accordingly, and because I do not believe that the work-product doctrine of Hickman  v. Taylor, 329 U.S. 495 (1947), can be extended wholesale from its historic role as a limitation on the nonevidentiary material which may be the subject of pretrial discovery to an unprecedented role as a limitation on the trial judge's power to compel production of evidentiary matter at trial, I add the following.
I
Up until now the work-product doctrine of Hickman  v. Taylor, supra, has been viewed almost exclusively as a limitation on the ability of a party to obtain pretrial discovery. It has not been viewed as a "limitation on the trial court's broad discretion as to evidentiary questions at trial." Ante,  at 236. The problem discussed in Hickman  v. Taylor  arose precisely because, in addition to accelerating the time when a party could obtain evidentiary matter from his adversary, 1 the new Federal Rules of Civil Procedure greatly expanded the nature of the material subject to pretrial disclosure. 2 Under the Rules, a party was, for the first time, entitled to know in advance his opponent's evidence and was entitled to obtain from his opponent nonprivileged "information as to the existence or whereabouts of facts" relevant to a case even though the "information" was not itself evidentiary. Hickman  v. Taylor, supra, at 501. Utilizing these Rules, the plaintiff in Hickman  v. Taylor  sought discovery of statements obtained by defense counsel from witnesses to the events relevant to the lawsuit, not for evidentiary use but only "to help prepare  himself to examine witnesses and to make sure that he ha overlooked nothing." 329 U.S., at 513 (emphasis added). In concluding that these statements should not be produced, the Court treated the matter entirely as one involving the plaintiff's entitlement to pretrial discovery under the new Federal Rules, 3 and carefully limited its opinion accordingly. The relevant Rule in the Court's view, Rule 26, on its face required production of the witness statements unless they were privileged. Nonetheless, the Court expressly stated that the request for witness statements was to be denied "not because the subject matter is privileged" (although noting that a workproduct "privilege" applies in England, 329 U.S., at 510 n. 9) as that concept was used in the Rules, but because the request "falls outside the arena of discovery." Id., at 510 (emphasis added). The Court stated that it is essential that a lawyer work with a certain degree of privacy, and concluded that the effect of giving one lawyer's work (particularly his strategy, legal theories, and mental impressions) to another would have a "demoralizing" effect on the legal profession. The Court then noted that witness statements might be admissible in evidence under some circumstances and might be usable to impeach or corroborate a witness. However, it concluded that in the case before it the plaintiff wanted the statements for preparation only and had shown no reason why he could not obtain everything he sought by doing his own work rather than utilizing that of his adversary.
The conclusion that the work product of a lawyer is not "privileged" made it much more difficult for the Court to support its result. Nothing expressed  in the Rule supported its result, and the Court was forced to explain its decision by stating: S
"When Rule 26 and the other discovery  rules were adopted, this Court and the members of the bar in general certainly did not believe or contemplate that all the files and mental processes of lawyers were thereby  opened to the free scrutiny of their adversaries." Id.,  at 514. (Emphasis added.)I
I am left with the firm conviction that the Court avoided the easier route to its decision for a reason. To have held an attorney's work product to be "privileged" would have been to limit its use at trial as evidence in those cases in which the work product qualified as evidence, see Report of Proposed Amendments to Rules of Civil Procedure for the District Courts of the United States, 5 F.R.D. 433, 460 (1946), and, as Mr. Justice Jackson stated in his concurring opinion, a party is entitled to anything which is "evidence in his case." 329 U.S., at 515. 4
Since Hickman  v. Taylor, supra, Congress, the cases, and the commentators have uniformly continued to view the "work product" doctrine solely as a limitation on pretrial discovery and not as a qualified evidentiary privilege. In 1970, Congress became involved with the problem for the first time in the civil area. It did so solely by accepting a proposed amendment to Fed. Rule Civ. Proc. 26, which incorporated much of what the Court held in Hickman v. Taylor, supra, with respect to pretrial discovery. See Advisory Committee's explanatory statement, 28 U.S.C. App., p. 7778. In the criminal area, Congress has enacted 18 U.S.C.  § 3500 and accepted Fed. Rule Crim. Proc. 16 (c). The former prevents pretrial discovery of witness statements from the Government; the latter prevents pretrial discovery of witness statements from the defense. Neither limits the power of the trial court to order production as evidence of prior statements of witnesses who have testified at trial. 5
With the exception of materials of the type discussed in Part II, infra, research has uncovered no application of the work-product rule in the lower courts since Hickman  to prevent production of evidence -- impeaching or   otherwise -- at trial; 6 and there are several examples of cases rejecting such an approach. 7
Similarly, the commentators have all treated the attorney work-product rule solely as a limitation on pretrial discovery, e.g.,  4 J. Moore, Federal Practice pp 26.63-26.64 (2d ed. 1974); 8 C. Wright & A. Miller, Federal Practice and Procedure § 2026 (1970); 2A W. Barron & A. Holtzoff, Federal Practice and Procedure § 652 (Wright ed. 1961), and some have expressly stated that it does not apply to evidentiary matter. F. James, Civil Procedure 211 n. 13 (1965); 4 J. Moore, Federal Practice p16.23  (1963).
The reasons for largely confining the work-product rule to its role as a limitation on pretrial discovery are compelling. First of all, the injury to the factfinding process is far greater where a rule keeps evidence  from the factfinder than when it simply keeps advance disclosure of evidence from a party or keeps from him leads  to evidence developed by his adversary and which he is just as well able to find by himself. In the main, where a party seeks to discover a statement made to an opposing party in order to prepare  for trial, he can obtain the "substantial equivalent... by other means," Fed. Rule Civ. Proc.  26(b)(3), i.e.,  by interviewing the witness himself. A prior inconsistent statement in the possession of his adversary, however, when sought for evidentiary purposes -- i.e.,  to impeach the witness after he testifies -- is for that purpose unique. By the same token, the danger perceived in Hickman  that each party to a case will decline to prepare in the hopes of eventually using his adversary's preparation is absent when disclosure will take place only at trial. Indeed, it is very difficult to articulate a reason why statements on the same subject matter as a witness' testimony should not be turned over to an adversary after the witness has testified. The statement will either be consistent with the witness' testimony, in which case it will be useless and disclosure will be harmless; or it will be inconsistent and of unquestioned value to the jury. Any claim that disclosure of such a statement would lead the trial into collateral and confusing issues was rejected by this Court in Jencks  v. United States,  353 U.S. 657 (1957), and by Congress in the legislation which followed.
The strong negative implication in Hickman  v. Taylor, supra,  that the work-product rule does not apply to evidentiary requests at trial became a holding in Jencks  v. United States, supra. There a defendant in a criminal case sought production by the Government at trial of prior statements made by its witnesses on the same subject matter as their testimony. The Government   argued, inter alia,  that production would violate the "'legitimate interest that each party -- including the Government -- has in safeguarding the privacy of its files.'" 353 U.S., at 670. The Court held against the Government. The Court said that to deny disclosure of prior statements which might be used to impeach the witnesses was to "deny the accused evidence  relevant and material to his defense," id.,  at 667 (emphasis added). Also rejected as unrealistic was any rule which would require the defendant to demonstrate the impeachment value of the prior statements before  disclosure, 8 and the Court held that entitlement to disclosure for use in cross-examination is "established when the reports are shown to relate to the testimony of the witness." Id.,  at 669. Thus, not only did the Court reject the notion that there was a "work product" limitation on the trial judge's discretion to order production of evidentiary matter at trial, but it was affirmatively held that prior statements of a witness on the subject of his testimony are the kind of evidentiary matter to which an adversary is entitled.
Indeed, even in the pretrial discovery area in which the work-product rule does apply, work-product notions have been thought insufficient to prevent discovery of evidentiary and impeachment  material. In Hickman  v. Taylor,  329 U.S., at 511, the Court stated: S
"We do not mean to say that all written materials obtained or prepared by an adversary's counsel with an eye toward litigation are necessarily free from discovery in all cases. Where relevant and nonprivileged   facts remain hidden in an attorney's file and where production of those facts is essential to the preparation of one's case, discovery may properly be had. Such written statements and documents might, under certain circumstances, be admissible in evidence  or give clues as to the existence or location of relevant facts. Or they might be useful for purposes of impeachment  or corroboration."  (Emphasis added.)I
Mr. Justice Jackson, in concurring, was even more explicit on this point. See supra,  at 245. Pursuant to this language, the lower courts have ordered evidence  to be turned over pretrial even when it came into being as a result of the adversary's efforts in preparation for trial. 9 A member of a defense team who witnesses an out-of-court statement of someone who later testifies at trial in a contradictory fashion becomes at that moment a witness to a relevant and admissible event, and the cases cited above would dictate disclosure of any reports he may have written about the event. 10 Since prior statements are inadmissible hearsay until the witness testifies, there is no occasion for ordering reports of such statements produced as evidence pretrial. However, some courts have ordered witness statements produced pretrial in the likelihood that they will become  impeachment evidence. 11 Moreover, where access to witnesses or to their information is unequal, discovery of their statements is often granted solely to help a party prepare  for trial regardless of any eventual evidentiary value of the out-of-court statements. See Proposed Amendments to the Federal Rules of Civil Procedure Relating to Discovery, 48 F.R.D., at 501.
Accordingly, it would appear that with one exception to be discussed below, the work-product notions of Hickman  v. Taylor, supra, impose no restrictions on the trial judge's ordering production of evidentiary matter at trial; that these notions apply in only a very limited way, if at all, to a party's efforts to obtain evidence  pretrial pursuant to available discovery devices; and that these notions supply only a qualified discovery immunity with respect to witness statements in any event. 12
II
In one of its aspects, the rule of Hickman  v. Taylor, supra, has application to evidentiary requests at trial. Both the majority and the concurring opinions in Hickman  v. Taylor  were at pains to distinguish between production of statements written by the witness and in the possession of the lawyer, and those statements which were made orally by the witness and written down by the lawyer. Production and use of oral statements written down by the lawyer would create a substantial risk that the lawyer would have to testify. 13   The majority said that this would "make the attorney much less an officer of the court and much more an ordinary witness." 329 U.S., at 513. Mr. Justice Jackson, in concurring, stated: S
"Every lawyer dislikes to take the witness stand and will do so only for grave reasons. This is partly because it is not his role; he is almost invariably a poor witness. But he steps out of professional character to do it. He regrets it; the profession discourages it. But the practice advocated here is one which would force him to be a witness, not as to what he has seen or done but as to other witnesses' stories, and not because he wants to do so but in self-defense." Id.,  at 517.I
The lower courts, too, have frowned on any practice under which an attorney who tries a case also testifies as a witness, and trial attorneys have been permitted to testify only in certain circumstances. 14
The remarks of the Court in Hickman v. Taylor, supra, while made in the context of a request for pretrial discovery have application to the evidentiary use of lawyers' memoranda of witness interviews at trial. It is unnecessary, however, to decide in this case whether the policies against putting in issue the credibility of the lawyer who will sum up to the jury outweighs the jury's interest in obtaining all relevant information; and whether Jencks  v. United States, supra, and 18 U.S.C.  § 3500 are to be viewed as expressing a preference for disclosure of all facts. 15 In this case, the creator of the memorandum was not the trial lawyer but an investigator 16   and he was, in any event, to be called as a witness by the defense. Accordingly, I would reverse the judgment below because, quite apart from waiver, the workproduct rule of Hickman  v. Taylor, supra, has no application to the request at trial for evidentiary and impeachment material made in this case.
