PER CURIAM.
The judgment is reversed.  We are not bound by the California court's contrary conclusion and hold that the incidence of the state and local sales taxes falls upon the national bank as purchaser and not upon the vendors. The national bank is therefore exempt from the taxes under former 12 U.S.C.  ยง 548 (1964 ed.), which was in effect at the time here pertinent.  First Agricultural Nat. Bankv. Tax Comm'n, 392 U.S. 339, 346-348 (1968).
Reversed.
DISSENT BY: STEVENS
MR. JUSTICE STEVENS, with whom MR. JUSTICE REHNQUIST joins, dissenting.
Appellants contend that California may not impose its sales tax on the sale of printed forms and other tangibles to Crocker-Citizens National Bank because the legal incidence of the tax falls upon a federal instrumentality.  The California Court of Appeal, applying a construction of the California statute that has been consistently followed for over 40 years, held that the legal incidence of the tax falls upon the vendor rather than the purchaser. 1
Since the case involves a federal claim of immunity from state taxation, we are not bound by the California court's determination of where the incidence of the tax falls.  2 On the other hand, we are not free simply to disregard the state court's determination.  3 More narrowly,  I believe we must accept the state court's interpretation of the meaning of a state statute insofar as it defines the legal obligations of the vendor, the purchaser, and the tax collector independently of any claim of federal immunity.
In this case we have the benefit of completely consistent construction by the California courts since the statute was enacted in 1933.  Both in cases involving a federal claim of immunity, 4 and also in cases which involved no question of federal law, 5 the California courts have unambiguously held that the statute imposes no legal obligation on a purchaser either to pay the tax himself or to reimburse his vendor.
That consistent, nondiscriminatory construction of California law avoids appellants' reliance on First Agricultural Nat. Bank v. Tax Comm'n, 392 U.S. 339 . In that case we held that "a sales tax which by its terms must be passed on to the purchaser imposes the legal incidence of the tax upon the purchaser." Id., at 347 (emphasis added).  6 This is not a case in which the state statute, either by its own terms or as construed by the state courts, imposes any legal obligation on the purchaser. 7
It is true that the bank expressly agreed to assume the economic burden imposed by the tax and, furthermore, that the statutory scheme contemplates that as a practical matter the vendor will pass that burden on to his customers.  As I understand our cases, however, these facts do not provide a sufficient basis for concluding that the legal incidence of the tax falls upon the purchaser. 8
Deciding where the legal incidence of a state tax falls is not the most intriguing task that judges are called upon to perform.  Such work is facilitated, however, when the controlling standards are expressed in simple language.  I had thought two rather clear rules controlled this case.  First, the location of the economic impact of a tax does not identify the place where its legal incidence falls.  Second, it is only if the State imposes a legal obligation on the purchaser either to pay the tax, or to reimburse the vendor for a tax payment, that the legal incidence is on the purchaser. The Court's disposition of this appeal apparently is not predicated on either of those rules.  However, I am persuaded that they require us to affirm the judgment of the California Court of Appeal.
