OPINION
MR. JUSTICE POWELL delivered the opinion of the Court.
The question in these consolidated cases is whether a state prosecutor may seek to impeach a defendant's exculpatory story, told for the first time at trial, by cross-examining the defendant about his failure to have told the story after receiving Miranda  warnings 1 at the time of his arrest. We conclude that use of the defendant's post-arrest silence in this manner violates due process, and therefore reverse the convictions of both petitioners.
I
Petitioners Doyle and Wood were arrested together and charged with selling 10 pounds of marihuana to a local narcotics bureau informant.  They were convicted in the Common Pleas Court of Tuscarawas County, Ohio, in separate trials held about one week apart.  The evidence at their trials was identical in all material respects.
The State's witnesses sketched a picture of a routine marihuana transaction. William Bonnell, a well-known "street person" with a long criminal record, offered to assist the local narcotics investigation unit in setting up drug "pushers" in return for support in his efforts to receive lenient treatment in his latest legal problems.  The narcotics agents agreed.  A short time later, Bonnell advised the unit that he had arranged a "buy" of 10 pounds of marihuana and needed $ 1,750 to pay for it.  Since the banks were closed and time was short, the agents were able to collect only $ 1,320.  Bonnell took this money and left for the rendezvous, under surveillance by four narcotics agents in two cars.  As planned, he met petitioners in a bar in Dover, Ohio.  From there, he and petitioner Wood drove in Bonnell's pickup truck to the nearby town of New Philadelphia, Ohio, while petitioner Doyle drove off to obtain the marihuana and then meet them at a prearranged location in New Philadelphia.  The narcotics agents followed the Bonnell truck.  When Doyle arrived at Bonnell's waiting truck in New Philadlphia, the two vehicles proceeded to a parking lot where the transaction took place.  Bonnell left in his truck, and Doyle and Wood departed in Doyle's car.  They quickly discovered that they had been paid $ 430 less than the agreed upon price, and began circling the neighborhood looking for Bonnell.  They were stopped within minutes by New Philadelphia police acting on radioed instructions from the narcotics agents.  One of those agents, Kenneth Beamer, arrived on the scene promptly, arrested petitioners, and gave them Miranda  warnings. A search of the car, authorized by warrant, uncovered the $ 1,320.
At both trials, defense counsel's cross-examination of the participating narcotics agents was aimed primarily at establishing that, due to a limited view of the parking lot, none of them had seen the actual transaction but had seen only Bonnell standing next to Doyle's car with a package under his arm, presumably after the transaction.  2 Each petitioner took the stand at his trial and admitted practically everything about the State's case except the most crucial point: who was selling marihuana to whom.  According to petitioners, Bonnell had framed them.  The arrangement had been for Bonnell to sell Doyle 10 pounds of marihuana. Doyle had left the Dover bar for the purpose of borrowing the necessary money, but while driving by himself had decided that he only wanted one or two pounds instead of the agreed-upon 10 pounds. When Bonnell reached Doyle's car in the New Philadelphia parking lot, with the marihuana under his arm, Doyle tried to explain his change of mind.  Bonnell grew angry, threw the $ 1,320 into Doyle's car, and took all 10 pounds of the marihuana back to his truck.  The ensuing chase was the effort of Wood and Doyle to catch Bonnell to find out what the $ 1,320 was all about.
Petitioners' explanation of the events presented some difficulty for the prosecution, as it was not entirely implausible and there was little if any direct evidence to contradict it.  3 As part of a wide-ranging cross-examination for impeachment purposes, and in an effort to undercut the explanation, the prosecutor asked each petitioner at his respective trial why he had not told the frameup story to Agent Beamer when he arrested petitioners.  In the first   trial, that of petitioner Wood, the following colloquy occurred: 4
"Q.   Mr. Beamer did arrive on the scene?
"A. Yes, he did.
"Q.  And I assume you told him all about what happened to you?
. . . . .
"A.  No.
"Q.  You didn't tell Mr. Beamer?
. . . . .
"A.  No.
"Q.  You didn't tell Mr. Beamer this guy put $ 1,300 in your car?
. . . . .
"A.  No, sir.
"Q.  And we can't understand any reason why anyone would put money in your car and you were chasing him around town and trying to give it back?
. . . . .
"A.  I didn't understand that.
"Q.  You mean you didn't tell him that?
. . . . .
"A.  Tell him what?
. . . . .
"Q.  Mr. Wood, if that is all you had to do with this and you are innocent, when Mr. Beamer arrived on the scene why didn't you tell him?
. . . .  .
"   Q.  But in any event you didn't bother to tell Mr. Beamer anything about this?
"A.  No, sir."
Defense counsel's timely objections to the above questions of the prosecutor were overruled.  The cross-examination of petitioner Doyle at his trial contained a similar exchange, and again defense counsel's timely objections were overruled.  5
Each petitioner appealed to the Court of Appeals, Fifth District, Tuscarawas County, alleging, inter alia, that the trial court erred in allowing the prosecutor to cross-examine the petitioner at his trial about his post-arrest silence. The Court of Appeals affirmed the convictions, stating as to the contentions about the post-arrest silence: S
"This was not evidence offered by the state in its case in chief as confession by silence or as substantive evidence of guilt but rather cross examination   of a witness as to why he had not told the same story earlier at his first opportunity.
"   We find no error in this.  It goes to credibility of the witness."I
The Supreme Court of Ohio denied further review.  We granted certiorari to decide whether impeachment use of a defendant's post-arrest silence violates any provision of the Constitution, 6 a question left open last Term in United States v. Hale,  422 U.S. 171 (1975), and on which the Federal Courts of Appeals are in conflict.  See id.,  at 173 n. 2.
II
The State pleads necessity as justification for the prosecutor's action in these cases.  It argues that the discrepancy between an exculpatory story at trial and silence at time of arrest gives rise to an inference that the story was fabricated somewhere along the way, perhaps to fit within the seams of the State's case as it was developed at pretrial hearings.  Noting that the prosecution usually has little else with which to counter such an exculpatory story, the State seeks only the right to cross-examine a defendant as to post-arrest silence for the limited purpose of impeachment. In support of its position the State emphasizes the importance of cross-examination in general, see Brown  v. United States,  356 U.S. 148, 154-155 (1958), and relies upon those cases in which this Court has permitted use for impeachment purposes of post-arrest statements that were inadmissible as evidence of guilt because of an officer's failure to follow Miranda's  dictates.  Harris  v. New York,  401 U.S. 222 (1971); Oregon  v. Hass,  420 U.S. 714 (1975); see also Walder  v. United States,  347 U.S. 62 (1954). Thus, although the State does not suggest petitioners' silence could be used as evidence of guilt, it contends that the need to present to the jury all information relevant to the truth of petitioners' exculpatory story fully justifies the cross-examination that is at issue.
Despite the importance of cross-examination, 7 we have concluded that the Miranda  decision compels rejection of the State's position. The warnings mandated by that case, as a prophylactic means of safeguarding Fifth Amendment rights, see Michigan  v. Tucker,  417 U.S. 433, 443-444 (1974), require that a person taken into custody be advised immediately that he has the right to remain silent, that anything he says may be used against him, and that he has a right to retained or appointed counsel before submitting to interrogation.  Silence in the wake of these warnings may be nothing more than the arrestee's exercise of these Miranda  rights.  Thus, every post-arrest silence is insolubly ambiguous because of what the State is required to advise the person arrested.  8 See United States v. Hale, supra,   at 177. Moreover, while it is true that the Miranda  warnings contain no express assurance that silence will carry no penalty, such assurance is implicit to any person who receives the warnings. In such circumstances, it would be fundamentally unfair and a deprivation of due process to allow the arrested person's silence to be used to impeach an explanation subsequently offered at trial.  9 MR. JUSTICE WHITE, concurring in the judgment in United States  v. Hale, supra, at 182-183, put it very well: S
"When a person under arrest is informed, as Miranda  requires, that he may remain silent, that anything he says may be used against him, and that he may have an attorney if he wishes, it seems to me that it does not comport with due process to permit the prosecution during the trial to call attention to his silence at the time of arrest and to insist that because he did not speak about the facts of the case at that time, as he was told he need not do, an unfavorable inference might be drawn as to the truth of his trial testimony.... Surely Hale was not informed here that his silence, as well as his words, could be used against him at trial.  Indeed, anyone would reasonably conclude from Miranda  warnings that this would not be the case." 10I
We hold that   the use for impeachment purposes of petitioners' silence, at the time of arrest and after receiving Miranda  warnings, violated the Due Process Clause of the Fourteenth Amendment. 11 The State has not  claimed that such use in the circumstances of this case might have been harmless error.  Accordingly, petitioners' convictions are reversed and their causes remanded to the state courts for further proceedings not inconsistent with this opinion.
So ordered.
<dissent author="STEVENS" text="TRUE">
DISSENT BY: STEVENS
MR. JUSTICE STEVENS, with whom MR. JUSTICE BLACKMUN and MR. JUSTICE REHNQUIST join, dissenting.
Petitioners assert that the prosecutor's cross-examination about their failure to mention the purported "frame" until they testified at trial violated their constitutional right to due process and also their constitutional privilege against self-incrimination.  I am not persuaded by the first argument; though there is merit in a portion of the second, I do not believe it warrants reversal of these state convictions.
I
The Court's due process rationale has some of the characteristics of an estoppel theory.  If (a) the defendant is advised that he may remain silent, and (b) he does remain silent, then we (c) presume that his decision was made in reliance on the advice, and (d) conclude that it is unfair in certain cases, though not others, 1 to use his silence to impeach his trial testimony. The key to the Court's analysis is apparently a concern that the Miranda  warning, which is intended to increase the probability that a person's response to police questioning will be intelligent and voluntary, will actually be deceptive unless we require the State to honor an unstated promise not to use the accused's silence against him.
In my judgment there is nothing deceptive or prejudicial to the defendant in the Miranda  warning. 2 Nor do I believe that the fact that such advice was given to the defendant lessens the probative value of his silence, or makes the prosecutor's cross-examination about his silence any more unfair than if he had received no such warning.
This is a case in which the defendants' silence at the time of their arrest was graphically inconsistent with their trial testimony that they were the unwitting victims of a "frame-up" in which the police did not participate.  If defendants had been framed, their failure to mention that fact at the time of their arrest is almost inexplicable; for that reason, under accepted rules of evidence, their silence is tantamount to a prior inconsistent statement and admissible for purposes of impeachment. 3
Indeed, there is irony in the fact that the Miranda  warning provides the only plausible explanation for their silence. If it were the true explanation, I should think that they would have responded to the questions on cross-examination about why they had remained silent by stating that they relied on their understanding of the advice given by the arresting officers.  Instead, however, they gave quite a different jumble of responses.  4 Those   responses negate the Court's presumption that their silence was induced by reliance on deceptive advice.
Since the record requires us to put to one side the Court's presumption that the defendants' silence was the product of reliance on the Miranda  warning, the Court's entire due process rationale collapses.  For without reliance on the waiver, the case is no different than if no warning had been given, and nothing in the Court's opinion suggests that there would be any unfairness in using petitioners' prior inconsistent silence for impeachment purposes in such a case.
Indeed, as a general proposition, if we assume the defendant's silence would be admissible for impeachment purposes if no Miranda  warning had been given, I should think that the warning would have a tendency to salvage the defendant's credibility as a witness.  If the defendant is a truthful witness, and if his silence is the consequence of his understanding of the Miranda warning, he may explain that fact when he is on the stand.  Even if he is untruthful, the availability of that explanation puts him in a better position than if he had received no warning. In my judgment, the risk that a truthful defendant will be deceived by the Miranda  warning and also will be unable to explain his honest misunderstanding is so much less than the risk that exclusion of the evidence will merely provide a shield for perjury that I cannot accept the Court's due process rationale.
Accordingly, if we assume that the use of a defendant's silence for impeachment purposes would be otherwise unobjectionable, I find no merit in the notion that he is denied due process of law because he received a Miranda  warning.
II
Petitioners argue that the State violated their Fifth Amendment privilege against self-incrimination by asking the jury to draw an inference of guilt from their constitutionally protected silence. They challenge both the prosecutor's cross-examination and his closing argument.
A
Petitioners claim that the cross-examination was improper because it referred to their silence at the time of their arrest, to their failure to testify at the preliminary hearing, and to their failure to reveal the "frame" prior to trial.  Their claim applies to the testimony of each defendant at his own trial, and also to the testimony each gave as a witness at the trial of the other. Since I think it quite clear that a defendant may not object to the violation of another person's privilege, 5 I shall only discuss the argument that a defendant may not be cross-examined about his own prior inconsistent silence.
In support of their objections to the cross-examination about their silence at the time of arrest, petitioners primarily rely on the statement in Miranda  v. Arizona,  384 U.S. 436, that the prosecution may not use at trial the fact that the defendant stood mute or claimed the privilege in the face of accusations during custodial interrogation.  6 There are two reasons why that statement does not adequately support petitioners' argument.
First, it is not accurate to say that the petitioners "stood mute or claimed the privilege in the face of accusations." Neither petitioner claimed the privilege and petitioner Doyle did not even remain silent.  7 The case is not one in which a description of the actual conversation between the defendants and the police would give rise to any inference of guilt if it were not so flagrantly inconsistent with their trial testimony. Rather than a claim of privilege, we simply have a failure to advise the police of a "frame" at a time when it most surely would have been mentioned if petitioners' trial testimony were true. That failure gave rise to an inference of guilt only because it belied their trial testimony.
Second, the dictum in the footnote in Miranda  relies primarily upon Griffin v. California,  380 U.S. 609, which held that the Fifth Amendment, as incorporated in the Fourteenth, prohibited the prosecution's use of the defendant's silence in its case in chief.  But as long ago as Raffel  v. United States,  271 U.S. 494, this Court recognized the distinction between the prosecution's affirmative use of the defendant's prior silence and the use of prior silence for impeachment purposes.  Raffel  expressly held that the defendant's silence at a prior trial was admissible for purposes of impeachment despite the application in federal prosecutions of the prohibition that Griffin found in the Fifth Amendment. Raffel, supra, at 496-497.
Moreover, Mr. Chief Justice Warren, the author of the Court's opinion in Miranda,  joined the opinion in Walder  v. United States,  347 U.S. 62, which squarely held that a valid constitutional objection to the admissibility of evidence as part of the Government's case in chief did not bar the use of that evidence to impeach the defendant's trial testimony. The availability of an objection to the affirmative use of improper evidence does not provide the defendant "with a shield against contradiction of his untruths." Id.,  at 65. The need to ensure the integrity of the truth-determining function of the adversary trial process has provided the predicate for an unbroken line of decisions so holding.  8
Although I have no doubt concerning the propriety of the cross-examination about petitioners' failure to mention the purported "  frame" at the time of their arrest, a more difficult question is presented by their objection to the questioning about their failure to testify at the preliminary hearing and their failure generally to mention the "frame" before trial.  9 Unlike the failure to make the kind of spontaneous comment that discovery of a "frame" would be expected to prompt, there is no significant inconsistency between petitioners' trial   testimony and their adherence to counsel's advice not to take the stand at the preliminary hearing; moreover, the decision not to divulge their defense prior to trial is probably attributable to counsel rather than to petitioners.  10 Nevertheless, unless and until this Court overrules Raffel  v. United States, 271 U.S. 494, 11 I think a state court is free to regard the defendant's decision to take the stand as a waiver of his objection to the use of his failure to testify at an earlier proceeding or his failure to offer his version of the events prior to trial.
B
In my judgment portions of the prosecutor's argument to the jury overstepped permissible bounds.  In each trial, he commented upon the defendant's silence not only as inconsistent with his testimony that he had been "framed,"   but also as inconsistent with the defendant's innocence. 12 Comment on the lack of credibility of the defendant is plainly proper; it is not proper, however, for the prosecutor to ask the jury to draw a direct inference of guilt from silence - to argue, in effect, that silence is inconsistent with innocence. But since the two inferences - perjury and guilt - are inextricably intertwined because they have a common source, it would be unrealistic to permit comment on the former but to find reversible error in the slightest reference to the latter.  In the context of the entire argument and the entire trial, I am not persuaded that the rather sophisticated distinction between permissible comment on credibility and impermissible comment on an inference of guilt justifies a reversal of these state convictions.  13
Accordingly, although I have some doubt concerning the propriety of the cross-examination about the preliminary hearing and consider a portion of the closing argument improper, I would affirm these convictions.
