OPINION
MR. JUSTICE STEWART delivered the opinion of the Court.
This case requires us to determine which venue provision controls in the event a national banking association is sued in a federal court for allegedly violating the Securities Exchange Act of 1934: the broad venue provision of the Securities Exchange Act, which allows suits under that Act to be brought in any district where the defendant may be found, or the narrow venue provision of the National Bank Act, which allows national banking associations to be sued only in the district where they are established.
The petitioner, Hyman Radzanower, instituted a class action in the District Court for the Southern District of New York alleging, inter alia, that the respondent, First National Bank of Boston, a national banking association with its principal office in Boston, Mass., had violated the federal securities laws by failing to disclose to the Securities and Exchange Commission and the investing public its knowledge of certain adverse financial information about one of its customers, the TelePrompter Corporation, and of securities laws violations by that company.  The complaint alleged that venue was proper under § 27 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, 48 Stat. 902, 15 U.S.C.  § 78aa, which provides that " ny suit or action to enforce any liability or duty created ... may be brought in any such district  or in the district wherein the defendant is found or is an inhabitant or transacts business...." The bank moved to dismiss the complaint as to it, asserting that venue as to it lay only under the venue provision of the National Bank Act, Rev. Stat.  § 5198 (1878), 12 U.S.C.  § 94. That section provides that " ctions and proceedings against any  association under this chapter may be had in any district or Territorial court of the United States held within the district in which such association may be established...." 1
Following the settled law of the Second Circuit, the District Court granted the bank's motion to dismiss.  It held that " bsent waiver or consent, a national bank may be sued only in the district in which it is established.  12 U.S.C. Section 94." The court noted that the bank was established in Boston "because its charter specifies Boston   as its principal place of business," 2 and it rejected the petitioner's claim that the bank had waived the provisions of § 94. 3 The Court of Appeals affirmed without opinion.  4 Because of differing views in the Circuits as to the statutory venue question presented, 5 we granted the petition for certiorari.   423 U.S. 911.
Section 94 provides that suits against a national banking association "may be had" in the federal district court for the district where such association is established.  The Court has held that this grant of venue is mandatory and exclusive: "The phrase 'suits... may be had' was, in every respect, appropriate language for the purpose of specifying the precise courts in which Congress consented to have national banks subject to suit and we believe Congress intended that in those courts alone could a national bank be sued against its will."  Mercantile Nat. Bank v. Langdeau, 371 U.S. 555, 560. Accord,  Michigan Nat. Bank v. Robertson, 372 U.S. 591;  National Bank v. Associates of Obstetrics, 425 U.S. 460. 6 The venue provision of the Securities Exchange Act, by contrast, allows suits under that Act to be brought anywhere that the Act is violated or a defendant does business or can otherwise be found. It is the petitioner's contention that when a national bank is named as a defendant in a suit brought under the Securities Exchange Act, it loses the protection of the venue provisions of § 94 and may be sued in any federal judicial district where that Act was violated or where it does   business or can be found.  For the reasons that follow, we cannot accept that contention.
It is a basic principle of statutory construction that   a statute dealing with a narrow, precise, and specific subject is not submerged by a later enacted statute covering a more generalized spectrum.  "Where there is no clear intention otherwise, a specific statute will not be controlled or nullified by a general one, regardless of the priority of enactment."  Morton v. Mancari, 417 U.S. 535, 550-551.  7 "The reason and philosophy of the rule is, that when the mind of the legislator has been turned to the details of a subject, and he has acted upon it, a subsequent statute in general terms, or treating the subject in a general manner, and not expressly contradicting the original act, shall not be considered as intended to affect the more particular or positive previous provisions, unless it is absolutely necessary to give the latter act such a construction, in order that its words shall have any meaning at all." T. Sedgwick, The Interpretation and Construction of Statutory and Constitutional Law 98 (2d ed. 1874).  8
When Congress enacted the narrow venue provisions of the National Bank Act, it was focusing on the particularized problems of national banks that might be sued in the state or federal courts.  When, 70 years later,   Congress enacted the Securities Exchange Act, its focus was on the objective of promoting fair dealing in the securities markets, and it enacted a general venue provision applicable to the broad universe of potential defendants subject to the prohibitions of that Act.  Thus, unless a "clear intention otherwise" can be discerned, the principle of statutory construction discussed above counsels that the specific venue provisions of § 94 are applicable to the respondent bank in this case.   Fourco Glass Co. v. Transmirra Products Corp., 353 U.S. 222.
The issue thus boils down to whether a "clear intention otherwise" can be discovered - whether, in short, it can be fairly concluded that the venue provision of the Securities Exchange Act operated as a pro tanto repeal of § 94.   "It is, of course, a cardinal principle of statutory construction that repeals by implication are not favored."  United States v. United Continental Tuna Corp., 425 U.S.  164, 168.9 There are, however, S
"two well-settled categories of repeals by implication - (1) where provisions in the two acts are in irreconcilable conflict, the later act to the extent of the conflict constitutes an implied repeal of the earlier one; and (2) if the later act covers the whole subject of the earlier one and is clearly intended as a substitute, it will operate similarly as a repeal of the earlier act.  But, in either case, the intention of the legislature to repeal must be clear and manifest...."  Posadas v. National City Bank, 296 U.S. 497, 503.I
It is evident that the "two acts" in this case fall into neither of those categories.
The statutory provisions at issue here cannot be said to be in "irreconcilable conflict" in the sense that there is a positive repugnancy between them or that they cannot mutually coexist.  It is not enough to show that the two statutes produce differing results when applied to the same factual situation, for that no more than states the problem.  Rather,   "when two statutes are capable of coexistence, it is the duty of the courts... to regard each as effective."  Morton v. Mancari, supra, at 551. As the Court put the matter in discussing the interrelationship of the antitrust laws and the securities laws: "Repeal is to be regarded as implied only if necessary to make the  work, and even then only to the minimum extent necessary.  This is the guiding principle to reconciliation of the two statutory schemes."  Silver v. New York Stock Exchange, 373 U.S. 341, 357. 10
Here the basic purposes of the Securities Exchange Act can be fairly served by giving full effect to the provisions of 12 U.S.C.  § 94. The primary purpose of the Securities Exchange Act was not to regulate the activities of national banks as such but "o provide fair and honest mechanisms for the pricing of securities  to assure that dealing in securities is fair and without undue preferences or advantages among investors...." H.R. Rep. No. 94-229, p. 91 (1975).  11 Its venue provision, § 27, was intended to facilitate that goal by enabling suits to enforce rights created by the Act to be brought wherever a defendant could be found.  The venue provision of the National Bank Act, § 94, was intended, on the other hand, "for the convenience of those  institutions, and to prevent interruption in their business that might result from their books being sent to distant counties...."  Charlotte Nat. Bank v. Morgan, 132 U.S. 141, 145,   quoted in  Mercantile Nat. Bank v. Langdeau, 371 U.S., at 561-562, n. 12.
By allowing suits against national banks to be brought only pursuant to § 94, the purposes of that section will obviously be served.  Yet application of § 94 will not "unduly interfere" with the operation of the Securities Exchange Act. See  Gordon v. New York Stock Exchange, 422 U.S. 659, 686. Section 94 will have no impact whatever upon the vast majority of lawsuits brought under that Act.  In the tiny fraction of litigation where its effect will be felt, it will foreclose nobody from invoking the Act's provisions. Members of the investing public will still be free to bring actions against national banks under the Act.  While suits against this narrow and infrequent category of defendants will have to be brought where the defendant is established, that is hardly an insurmountable burden in this day of easy and rapid transportation.  12 Since it is possible for the statutes to coexist in this manner, they are not so repugnant to each other as to justify a finding of an implied repeal by this Court.  It is simply not "necessary" that § 94 be repealed in part in order "to make the Securities Exchange Act work." See Silver v. New York Stock Exchange, supra, at 357.
Moreover, it cannot be said either that "the later act covers the whole subject of the earlier one and is clearly intended as a substitute," or that "the intention of the legislature to repeal  clear and manifest."  296 U.S., at 503. The Securities Exchange Act of 1934 covers a "subject" quite different from the National Bank Act. The 1934 Act was enacted primarily to halt securities fraud, not to regulate banks.  Indeed, banks were specifically exempted from many provisions of the securities laws, 13 and Congress almost contemporaneously enacted other specific legislation dealing with the problems arising from banks' involvement in the securities business.  14 The passage of that legislation and the exemption of national banks from important provisions of the securities laws suggest, if anything, that Congress was reaffirming its view that national banks should be regulated separately by specific legislation applying only to them.  15 And there is nothing in the legislative history of the Securities Exchange Act to support the view that Congress in enacting it gave the slightest consideration to the pro tanto repeal of § 94, let alone to indicate "that Congress consciously abandoned its  policy,"  Morton v. Mancari, 417 U.S., at 551, or that its intent to repeal § 94 pro tanto was "clear and manifest,'"  United States v. Borden Co., 308 U.S. 188, 198, quoting  Red Rock v. Henry, 106 U.S. 596, 602. 16
For these reasons it is impossible to conclude that § 94 was partially repealed by implication in 1934.  It follows under the general principles of statutory construction discussed above that the narrowly drawn, specific venue provision of the National Bank Act must prevail over the broader, more generally applicable venue provision of the Securities Exchange Act. We conclude, therefore, that a national banking association is subject to suit under the Securities Exchange Act only in that district wherein it is established, and that the judgment before us must accordingly be affirmed.
It is so ordered.
<dissent author="STEVENS" text="TRUE">
DISSENT BY: STEVENS
MR. JUSTICE STEVENS, dissenting.
In my judgment a brief reference to the history, purpose, and language of these two special venue statutes will provide a better guide to their meaning than the exposition of the doctrine of implied repeal found in the treatise on statutory construction written by Sedgwick in 1874.  Indeed, if Sedgwick were to be our guide, I would heed this advice: "When acts can be harmonized by a fair and liberal construction it must be done." 1
It is worth repeating that both of these statutes are special venue statutes.  Neither party relies on the general venue provision in 28 U.S.C. § 1391. One relies on a special statute for one kind of litigant - national banks; the other relies on a special statute for one kind of litigation - cases arising under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.  The precise issue before us involves only a tiny fraction of the cases in either special category: Most litigation against national banks does not arise under the Securities Exchange Act; and most litigation arising under the Securities Exchange Act does not involve national banks.  Thus, with equal logic we might describe either statute as creating an exception from the somewhat more general provisions of the other.
The rule that the legislature presumably intended to give effect to the more specific statute could therefore be applied to support the petitioner, as well as the respondent bank, in this case.  2 Similarly, without pausing to consider the reason why each statute was enacted, we might simply apply the rule that the more recent of two conflicting statutes shall prevail, 3 rather than the rule that the special statute takes precedence over the general. But such abstract reasoning is less instructive than a consideration of the source and the need for the alleged conflict.  Of special importance is an evaluation of the intent of Congress when it enacted these statutes.
The source of the special venue statute for national banks is the Act to Provide a National Currency enacted in 1863 4 and amended in 1864.  5 When these statutes were enacted, Congress apparently assumed that the newly authorized national banks would not be subject to suit in state courts unless Congress gave its express consent. 6 The fact that the statute was phrased in permissive language suggests that Congress' primary purpose was to give such consent.  The mandatory construction given to that language a century later when the Court decided  Mercantile Nat. Bank v. Langdeau, 371 U.S. 555, is consistent with that purpose because it is unlikely that the Civil War Congress intended to authorize the several States to subject national banks to the potential   harassment of defending litigation in places other than the county or city where the bank was located.  7 This reason for placing a mandatory limiting construction on the authorization for suit in the state courts is not applicable to the separately enacted federal venue provision; for in any event the federal courts could only entertain such litigation against national banks as Congress might authorize.
In 1934 when Congress enacted the Securities Exchange Act, there was no reason for it to assume that the language in the special jurisdictional and venue provisions of that statute would not apply to national banks.  Langdeau would not be decided until almost 30 years later, the language in the venue provision of the Civil War banking legislation was permissive, and there was no recognized policy reason supporting an exceptional venue privilege for national banks in federal litigation.  There was no longer any doubt about the suability of national banks in either state or federal courts.  Moreover, what once might have been regarded as the significant burden of requiring a fledgling bank to haul its records from one county to another within the State, would hardly justify treating banks differently from other litigants in the 20th century.
On the other hand, the special venue section included in the Securities Acts was specifically designed to implement an important legislative objective.  Indeed, in construing the comparable provision in the 1933 statute, the Court held that its benefits are so crucial to the legislative purpose that they cannot be waived. 8 In contrast, it is well settled that a national bank's special venue privilege is waivable.  9 Manifestly, there is a difference between the importance of the policies underlying the two statutes.
But there is no necessary conflict.  Since the two Acts can be harmonized by a fair and liberal construction, if we heed Sedgwick's counsel, that "must be done." As already noted, the actual wording of the earlier statute, which used the words "may be had" provides no conflict with a literal reading of the later Act.  The conflict is created solely by this Court's interpretation of those words as, in effect, meaning that the trial of a case against a national bank "must be had" in the place specified by Congress rather than the place specified by a state legislature.  If we so read the statute, we need only conclude that any later enacted special venue statute which, by its own terms, applies to national banks should be read to mean what it says.  Preoccupation   with the ancient doctrine of implied repeal should not foreclose this simple construction of the plain language of the 1934 Act.  10
The rule that repeals by implication are not favored, like all other canons of statutory construction, is merely one of the guidelines to observe in the search for a construction which will best reflect the real intent of the legislature.  When we are dealing with a well-established and clearly defined old rule, it is usually reasonable to suppose that the legislative intent to change such a rule would be unambiguously expressed.  Or if we are dealing with an old rule that is an established and important part of our national policy, we must be sure that it is not changed simply by inadvertent use of broad statutory language.  Thus, if Congress intended to modify the long-settled practice of preferential hiring of Indians on Indian reservations, 11 or to limit the coverage of a statute as important as the Sherman Act, 12 a court would require an unambiguous expression of intent to make such a change; without such an expression it is reasonable to believe that inadvertence, rather than an intent to repeal, is the actual explanation for the broad language that arguably changes the old rule. 13 But if neither the existence of, nor the reason for,  the old rule is clear at the time of the later enactment, there is no special reason for questioning the legislative intent to have the later statute mean exactly what it says.  Specifically, in this case, since it is clear that Congress intended national banks to be covered by some sections of the Securities Exchange Act, but not others, 14 and since the purpose of authorizing a broader venue in this type of litigation applies with equal force to national banks and other defendants, the canon of construction strikes me as an unreliable guide for ascertaining the true intent of Congress.
Congress may well have simply overlooked the special venue provision in the Civil War statute, particularly since Langdeau had not yet been decided.  It may therefore be accurate to describe the omission of any reference to the earlier statute in the legislative history of the later one as inadvertent.  But that merely raises the question of whether it is more realistic to imply an exception to the applicable language of the 1934 Act or to conclude that if Congress had thought about this preference for national banks it nevertheless would have enacted the statute it did enact in 1934. There is no doubt in my mind that the 1934 Congress would have done exactly what it did do even if it had foreseen not   only this Court's decision in Langdeau but also the Court's willingness to construe the federal venue provision in the same "Draconian" fashion as the state provision, to use Judge Friendly's typically appropriate adjective.  I could understand a legislative decision to exempt banks entirely from the coverage of the new law on the theory that an interest in the solvency of national banks entitles them to special immunity, but it seems wholly unrealistic to assume that Congress would treat banks like all other defendants for liability purposes and yet treat them differently for venue purposes.
It is true that we are dealing with only a tiny fraction of the litigation arising under the 1934 Act or of the litigation involving national banks.  But that fact merely minimizes the likelihood that a busy Congress will correct an inequitable and anachronistic situation.  It is also true that holding the trial in one forum rather than another is hardly an insurmountable burden on either the plaintiff or the bank in this day of easy and rapid transportation - unlike the situation in the Civil War period when the statute that the Court considers controlling was enacted - but the burden on the judiciary is increased by requiring multiple trials whenever national banks participate in an allegedly unlawful securities offering.
In sum, whatever canon of statutory construction is applied, I am persuaded that we are most apt to reflect the intent of Congress faithfully if we give effect to the plain meaning of the 1934 Act and thereby place banks on an equal footing with other corporations which must defend litigation of this kind.
I therefore respectfully dissent.
