OPINION
MR. JUSTICE WHITE delivered the opinion of the Court.
The question here is whether the Due Process Clause of the Fourteenth Amendment entitles a state prisoner to a hearing when he is transferred to a prison the conditions of which are substantially less favorable to the prisoner, absent a state law or practice conditioning such transfers on proof of serious misconduct or the occurrence of other events.  We hold that it does not.
I
During a 2 1/2-month period in 1974, there were nine serious fires at the Massachusetts Correctional Institution at Norfolk -- a medium-security institution.  Based primarily on reports from informants, the six respondent inmates were removed from the general prison population and placed in the Receiving Building, an administrative detention area used to process new inmates. Proceedings were then had before the Norfolk prison   Classification Board with respect to whether respondents were to be transferred to another institution -- possibly a maximum-security institution, the living conditions at which are substantially less favorable than those at Norfolk.  Each respondent was notified of the classification hearing and was informed that the authorities had information indicating that he had engaged in criminal conduct.  1
Individual classification hearings were held, each respondent being represented by counsel.  Each hearing began by the reading of a prepared statement by the Classification Board.  The Board then heard, in camera  and out of the respondents' presence, the testimony of petitioner Meachum, the Norfolk prison superintendent, who repeated the information that had been received from informants. Each respondent was then told that the evidence supported the allegations contained in the notice but was not then -- or ever -- given transcripts or summaries of Meachum's testimony before the Board.  Each respondent was allowed to present evidence in his own behalf; and each denied involvement in the particular infraction being investigated.  Some respondents submitted supportive testimony or written statements from correction officers. A social worker also testified in the presence of each respondent, furnishing the respondent's criminal and custodial record, including prior rule infractions, if any, and other aspects of his performance and "general adjustment" at Norfolk.
The Board recommended that Royce be placed in administrative segregation for 30 days; that Fano, Dussault,  and McPhearson be transferred to Walpole, a maximum-security institution where the living conditions are substantially less favorable to the prisoners than those at Norfolk, and that DeBrosky and Hathaway be transferred to Bridgewater which has both maximum-and medium-security facilities.  The reasons for its actions were stated in the Board's reports, 2 which, however, were not then available to respondents.  Although respondents were aware of the general import of the informants' allegations and were told that the recommendations   drew upon informant sources, the details of this information were not revealed to respondents and are not included in the Board's reports which are part of the record before us.
The Board's recommendations were reviewed by the Acting Deputy Commissioner for Classification and Treatment and by the Commissioner of Corrections on the basis of the written report prepared by the Board.  They accepted the recommendations of the Board with respect to Fano, Dussault, Hathaway, and McPhearson.  DeBrosky and Royce were ordered transferred to Walpole.  3 The transfers were carried out, with two exceptions.  4 No respondent was subjected to disciplinary punishment upon arrival at the transfer prison. None of the transfers ordered entailed loss of good time or disciplinary confinement.  5
Meanwhile respondents had brought this action under 42 U.S.C.  ยง 1983 against petitioners Meachum, the prison superintendent; Hall, the State Commissioner of Corrections; and Dawber, the Acting Deputy for Classification and Treatment, alleging that respondents were being deprived of liberty without due process of law in that petitioners had ordered them transferred to a less favorable institution without an adequate factfinding hearing.  They sought an injunction setting aside the ordered transfer, declaratory relief, and damages.
The District Court understood Wolff  v. McDonnell,  418 U.S. 539 (1974), to entitle respondents to notice and hearing and held both constitutionally inadequate in this case.  Respondents were ordered returned to the general prison population at Norfolk until transferred after proper notice and hearing.  Petitioners were also ordered to promulgate regulations to establish procedures governing future transfer hearings involving informant testimony.  A divided panel of the Court of Appeals affirmed, 520 F. 2d 374, holding that the transfers from Norfolk to maximum-security institutions involved "a significant modification of the overall conditions of confinement" and that this change in circumstances was "serious enough to trigger the application of due process protections." Id.,  at 377-378. 6
We granted the prison officials' petition for writ of certiorari, 423 U.S. 1013 (1975), in order to determine whether the Constitution required petitioners to conduct a factfinding hearing in connection with the transfers in this case where state law does not condition the authority to transfer on the occurrence of specific acts of misconduct or other events and, if so, whether the hearings granted in this case were adequate.  In light of our resolution of the first issue, we do not reach the second.
II
The Fourteenth Amendment prohibits any State from depriving a person of life, liberty, or property without due process of law.  The initial inquiry is whether the transfer of respondents from Norfolk to Walpole and Bridgewater infringed or implicated a "liberty" interest   of respondents within the meaning of the Due Process Clause.  Contrary to the Court of Appeals, we hold that it did not.  We reject at the outset the notion that   any  grievous loss visited upon a person by the State is sufficient to invoke the procedural protections of the Due Process Clause.  In Board of Regents  v. Roth,  408 U.S. 564 (1972), a university professor was deprived of his job, a loss which was surely a matter of great substance, but because the professor had no property interest in his position, due process procedures were not required in connection with his dismissal.  We there held that the determining factor is the nature of the interest involved rather than its weight.  Id.,  at 570-571.
Similarly, we cannot agree that any  change in the conditions of confinement having a substantial adverse impact on the prisoner involved is sufficient to invoke the protections of the Due Process Clause. The Due Process Clause by its own force forbids the State from convicting any person of crime and depriving him of his liberty without complying fully with the requirements of the Clause.  But given a valid conviction, the criminal defendant has been constitutionally deprived of his liberty to the extent that the State may confine him and subject him to the rules of its prison system so long as the conditions of confinement do not otherwise violate the Constitution.  The Constitution does not require that the State have more than one prison for convicted felons; nor does it guarantee that the convicted prisoner will be placed in any particular prison if, as is likely, the State has more than one correctional institution.  The initial decision to assign the convict to a particular institution is not subject to audit under the Due Process Clause, although the degree of confinement in one prison may be quite different from that in another.  The conviction has sufficiently extinguished the defendant's liberty interest to empower the State to confine him in any  of its prisons.
Neither, in our view, does   the Due Process Clause in and of itself protect a duly convicted prisoner against transfer from one institution to another within the state prison system.  Confinement in any of the State's institutions is within the normal limits or range of custody which the conviction has authorized the State to impose.  That life in one prison is much more disagreeable than in another does not in itself signify that a Fourteenth Amendment liberty interest is implicated when a prisoner is transferred to the institution with the more severe rules.
Our cases hold that   the convicted felon does not forfeit all constitutional protections by reason of his conviction and confinement in prison. He retains a variety of important rights that the courts must be alert to protect.  See Wolff  v. McDonnell,  418 U.S., at 556, and cases there cited. But none of these cases reaches this one; and to hold as we are urged to do that any  substantial deprivation imposed by prison authorities triggers the procedural protections of the Due Process Clause would subject to judicial review a wide spectrum of discretionary actions that traditionally have been the business of prison administrators rather than of the federal courts.
Transfers between institutions, for example, are made for a variety of reasons and often involve no more than informed predictions as to what would best serve institutional security or the safety and welfare of the inmate. Yet under the approach urged here, any transfer, for whatever reason, would require a hearing as long as it could be said that the transfer would place the prisoner in substantially more burdensome conditions that he had been experiencing.  We are unwilling to go so far.
Wolff v. McDonnell, on which the Court of Appeals heavily relied, is not to the contrary.  Under that case, the Due Process Clause entitles a state prisoner to certain procedural protections when he is deprived of goodtime credits because of serious misconduct. But the liberty interest there identified did not originate in the Constitution, which "itself does not guarantee good-time credit for satisfactory behavior while in prison." Id.,  at 557.The State itself, not the Constitution, had "not only provided a statutory right to good time but also specifies that it is to be forfeited only for serious misbehavior." Ibid.   We concluded: S
" person's liberty is equally protected, even when the liberty itself is a statutory creation of the State.  The touchstone of due process is protection of the individual against arbitrary action of government, Dent  v. West Virginia, 129 U.S. 114, 123 (1889). Since prisoners in Nebraska can only lose good-time credits if they are guilty of serious misconduct, the determination of whether such behavior has occurred becomes critical, and the minimum requirements of procedural due process appropriate for the circumstances must be observed." Id., at 558.I
The liberty interest protected in Wolff  had its roots in state law, and the minimum procedures appropriate under the circumstances were held required by the Due Process Clause "to insure that the state-created right is not arbitrarily abrogated." Id.,  at 557.  This is consistent with our approach in other due process cases such as Goss  v. Lopez,  419 U.S. 565 (1975); Board of Regents  v. Roth, supra; Perry  v. Sindermann,  408 U.S. 593 (1972); Goldberg  v. Kelly, 397 U.S. 254 (1970).
Here, Massachusetts law conferred no right on the prisoner to remain in the prison to which he was initially assigned, defeasible only upon proof of specific acts of misconduct.  Insofar as we are advised, transfers between Massachusetts prisons are not conditioned upon the occurrence of specified events.  7 On the contrary, transfer in a wide variety of circumstances is vested in prison officials.  The predicate for invoking the protection of the Fourteenth Amendment as construed and applied in Wolff  v. McDonnell  is totally nonexistent in this case.
Even if Massachusetts has not represented that transfers will occur only on the occurrence of certain events, it is argued that charges of serious misbehavior, as in this case, often initiate and heavily influence the transfer decision and that because allegations of misconduct may be erroneous, hearings should be held before transfer to a more confining institution is to be suffered by the prisoner. That an inmate's conduct, in general or in specific instances, may often be a major factor in the decision of prison officials to transfer him is to be expected unless it be assumed that transfers are mindless events.  A prisoner's past and anticipated future behavior will very likely be taken into account in selecting a prison in which he will be initially incarcerated or to which he will be transferred to best serve the State's penological goals.
A prisoner's behavior may precipitate a transfer; and absent such behavior, perhaps transfer would not take place at all.  But, as we have said, Massachusetts prison officials have the discretion to transfer prisoners for any number of reasons.  Their discretion is not limited to instances of serious misconduct. As we understand it no legal interest or right of these respondents under Massachusetts law would have been violated by their transfer whether or not their misconduct had been proved in accordance with procedures that might be required by the Due Process Clause in other circumstances. Whatever expectation the prisoner may have in remaining at a particular prison so long as he behaves himself, it is too ephemeral and insubstantial to trigger procedural due process protections as long as prison officials have discretion to transfer him for whatever reason or for no reason at all.
Holding that arrangements like this are within reach of the procedural protections of the Due Process Clause would place the Clause astride the day-to-day functioning of state prisons and involve the judiciary in issues and discretionary decisions that are not the business of federal judges.  We decline to so interpret and apply the Due Process Clause. The federal courts do not sit to supervise state prisons, the administration of which is of acute interest to the States.  Preiser  v. Rodriguez,  411 U.S. 475, 491-492 (1973); Cruz  v. Beto,  405 U.S. 319, 321 (1972); Johnson  v. Avery,  393 U.S. 483, 486 (1969). The individual States, of course, are free to follow another course, whether by statute, by rule or regulation, or by interpretation of their own constitutions.  They may thus decide that prudent prison administration requires pretransfer hearings.  Our holding is that the Due Process Clause does not impose a nationwide rule mandating transfer hearings.  8
The judgment of the Court of Appeals accordingly is
Reversed.
<dissent author="STEVENS" text="TRUE">
DISSENT BY: STEVENS
MR. JUSTICE STEVENS, with whom MR. JUSTICE BRENNAN and MR. JUSTICE MARSHALL join, dissenting.
The Court's rationale is more disturbing than its narrow holding.  If the Court had merely held that the transfer of a prisoner from one penal institution to another does not cause a sufficiently grievous loss to amount to a deprivation of liberty within the meaning of the Due Process Clause of the Fourteenth Amendment, 1 I would disagree with the conclusion but not with the constitutional analysis.  The Court's holding today, however, appears to rest on a conception of "liberty" which I consider fundamentally incorrect.
The Court indicates that a "liberty interest" may have either of two sources. According to the Court, a liberty interest may "originate in the Constitution," ante,  at 226, or it may have "its roots in state law." Ibid.   Apart from those two possible origins, the Court is unable to find that a person has a constitutionally protected interest in liberty.
If man were a creature of the State, the analysis would be correct.  But neither the Bill of Rights nor the laws of sovereign States create the liberty which the Due Process Clause protects.  The relevant constitutional provisions are limitations on the power of the sovereign to infringe on the liberty of the citizen.  The relevant state laws either create property rights, or they curtail the freedom of the citizen who must live in an ordered society.  Of course, law is essential to the exercise and enjoyment of individual liberty in a complex society.  But it is not the source of liberty, and surely not the exclusive source.
I had thought it self-evident that all men were endowed by their Creator with liberty as one of the cardinal unalienable rights.  It is that basic freedom which the Due Process Clause protects, rather than the particular rights or privileges conferred by specific laws or regulations.
A correct description of the source of the liberty protected by the Constitution does not, of course, decide this case.  For, by hypothesis, we are dealing with persons who may be deprived of their liberty because they have been convicted of criminal conduct after a fair trial.  We should therefore first ask whether the deprivation of liberty which follows conviction is total or partial.
At one time the prevailing view was that the deprivation was essentially total.  The penitentiary inmate was considered "the slave of the State." See Ruffin  v. Commonwealth,  62 Va. 790, 796 (1871). Although the wording of the Thirteenth Amendment provided some support for that point of view, 2 "courts in recent years have moderated the harsh implications of the Thirteenth Amendment." 3
The moderating trend culminated in this Court's landmark holding that notwithstanding the continuation of legal custody pursuant to a criminal conviction, a parolee has a measure of liberty that is entitled to constitutional protection.  S
"We see, therefore, that the liberty of a parolee, although indeterminate, includes many of the core values of unqualified liberty and its termination inflicts a 'grievous loss' on the parolee and often on others.  It is hardly useful any longer to try to deal with this problem in terms of whether the parolee's liberty is a 'right' or a 'privilege.' By whatever name, the liberty is valuable and must be seen as within the protection of the Fourteenth Amendment. Its termination calls for some orderly process, however informal." Morrissey  v. Brewer,  408 U.S. 471, 482.I
Although the Court's opinion was narrowly written with careful emphasis on the permission given to the parolee to live outside the prison walls, the Court necessarily held that the individual possesses a residuum of constitutionally protected liberty while in legal custody pursuant to a valid   conviction.  For release on parole is merely conditional,  and it does not interrupt the State's legal custody. I remain convinced that the Court of Appeals for the Seventh Circuit correctly analyzed the true significance of the Morrissey  holding, when I wrote for that court in 1973: S
"In view of the fact that physical confinement is merely one species of legal custody, we are persuaded that Morrissey  actually portends a more basic conceptual holding: liberty protected by the due process clause may - indeed must to some extent - coexist with legal custody pursuant to conviction.  The deprivation of liberty following an adjudication of guilt is partial, not total. A residuum of constitutionally protected rights remains.
"As we noted in Morales v. Schmidt, the view once held that an inmate is a mere slave is now totally rejected.  The restraints and the punishment which a criminal conviction entails do not place the citizen beyond the ethical tradition that accords respect to the dignity and intrinsic worth of every individual.  4 'Liberty' and 'custody' are not mutually exclusive concepts.  S
"If the Morrissey  decision is not narrowly limited by the distinction between physical confinement and conditional liberty to live at large in society, 5 it requires that due process precede any substantial deprivation of the liberty of persons in custody.  We believe a due regard for the interests of the individual inmate, as well as the interests of that substantial segment of our total society represented by inmates, 6 requires that Morrissey  be so read." United States ex rel. Miller  v. Twomey,  479 F. 2d 701, 712-713.I
It demeans the holding in Morrissey -  more importantly it demeans the concept of liberty itself - to ascribe to that holding nothing more than a protection of an interest that the State has created through its own prison regulations. For if the inmate's protected liberty interests are no greater than the State chooses to allow, he is really little more than the slave described in the 19th century cases.  I think it clear that even the inmate retains an unalienable interest in liberty - at the very minimum the right to be treated with dignity - which the Constitution may never ignore.
This basic premise is not inconsistent with recognition of the obvious fact that the State must have wide latitude in determining the conditions of confinement that will be imposed following conviction of crime. To supervise and control its prison population, the State must retain the power to change the conditions for individuals, or for groups of prisoners, quickly and without judicial review.  In many respects the State's problems in governing its inmate population are comparable to those encountered in governing a military force.  Prompt and unquestioning obedience by the   individual, even to commands he does not understand, may be essential to the preservation of order and discipline.  Nevertheless, within the limits imposed by the basic restraints governing the controlled population, each individual retains his dignity and, in time, acquires a status that is entitled to respect.
Imprisonment is intended to accomplish more than the temporary removal of the offender from society in order to prevent him from committing like offenses during the period of his incarceration.  While custody denies the inmate the opportunity to offend, it also gives him an opportunity to improve himself and to acquire skills and habits that will help him to participate in an open society after his release.  Within the prison community, if my basic hypothesis is correct, he has a protected right to pursue his limited rehabilitative goals, or at the minimum, to maintain whatever attributes of dignity are associated with his status in a tightly controlled society.  It is unquestionably within the power of the State to change that status, abruptly and adversely; but if the change is sufficiently grievous, it may not be imposed arbitrarily.  In such case due process must be afforded.
That does not mean, of course, that every adversity amounts to a deprivation within the meaning of the Fourteenth Amendment. 7 There must be grievous loss, and that term itself is somewhat flexible.  I would certainly not consider every transfer within a prison system, even to more onerous conditions of confinement, such a loss.  On the other hand, I am unable to identify a principled basis for differentiating between a transfer from the general prison population to solitary confinement and a transfer involving equally disparate conditions between one physical facility and another.
In view of the Court's basic holding, I merely note that I agree with the Court of Appeals that the transfer involved in this case was sufficiently serious to invoke the protection of the Constitution.  8
I respectfully dissent.
