OPINION
MR. JUSTICE STEVENS delivered the opinion of the Court.
The constitutional question presented is whether the State of New York may record, in a centralized computer file, the names and addresses of all persons who have obtained, pursuant to a doctor's prescription, certain drugs for which there is both a lawful and an unlawful market.
The District Court enjoined enforcement of the portions of the New York State Controlled Substances Act of 1972 1 which require such recording on the ground that they violate appellees' constitutionally protected rights of privacy. 2 We noted probable jurisdiction of the appeal by the Commissioner of Health, 424 U.S. 907, and now reverse.  3
Many drugs have both legitimate and illegitimate uses.  In response to a concern that such drugs were being diverted into unlawful channels, in 1970 the New York Legislature created a special commission to evaluate the State's drugcontrol laws.  4 The commission found the existing laws deficient   in several respects.  There was no effective way to prevent the use of stolen or revised prescriptions, to prevent unscrupulous pharmacists from repeatedly refilling prescriptions, to prevent users from obtaining prescriptions from more than one doctor, or to prevent doctors from overprescribing, either by authorizing an excessive amount in one prescription or by giving one patient multiple prescriptions. 5 In drafting new legislation to correct such defects, the commission consulted with enforcement officials in California and Illinois where central reporting systems were being used effectively.  6
The new New York statute classified potentially harmful drugs in five schedules.  7 Drugs, such as heroin, which are highly abused and have no recognized medical use, are in Schedule I; they cannot be prescribed.  Schedules II through V include drugs which have a progressively lower potential for abuse but also have a recognized medical use.  Our concern is limited to Schedule II, which includes the most dangerous of the legitimate drugs.  8
With an exception for emergencies, the Act requires that all prescriptions for Schedule II drugs be prepared by the physician in triplicate on an official form.  9 The completed form identifies the prescribing physician; the dispensing pharmacy; the drug and dosage; and the name, address, and age of the patient. One copy of the form is retained by the physician, the second by the pharmacist, and the third is forwarded to the New York State Department of Health in Albany. A prescription made on an official form may not exceed a 30-day supply, and may not be refilled.  10
The District Court found that about 100,000 Schedule II prescription forms are delivered to a receiving room at the Department of Health in Albany each month. They are sorted, coded, and logged and then taken to another room where the data on the forms is recorded on magnetic tapes for processing by a computer. Thereafter, the forms are returned to the receiving room to be retained in a vault for a five-year period and then destroyed as required by the statute.  11   The receiving room is surrounded by a locked wire fence and protected by an alarm system.  The computer tapes containing the prescription data are kept in a locked cabinet.  When the tapes are used, the computer is run "off-line," which means that no terminal outside of the computer room can read or record any information.  Public disclosure of the identity of patients is expressly prohibited by the statute and by a Department of Health regulation.  12 Willful violation of these prohibitions is a crime punishable by up to one year in prison and a $ 2,000 fine.  13 At the time of trial there were 17 Department of Health employees with access to the files; in addition, there were 24 investigators with authority to investigate cases of overdispensing which might be identified by the computer.  Twenty months after the effective date of the Act, the computerized data had only been used in two investigations involving alleged overuse by specific patients.
A few days before the Act became effective, this litigation was commenced by a group of patients regularly receiving prescriptions for Schedule II drugs, by doctors who prescribe such drugs, and by two associations of physicians.  14 After various preliminary proceedings, 15 a three-judge District Court conducted a one-day trial.  Appellees offered evidence tending to prove that persons in need of treatment with Schedule II drugs will from time to time decline such treatment because of their fear that the missuse of the computerized data will cause them to be stigmatized as "drug addicts." 16
The District Court held that "the doctor-patient relationship is one of the zones of privacy accorded constitutional protection" and that the patient-identification provisions of the Act invaded this zone with "a needlessly broad sweep," and enjoined enforcement of the provisions of the Act which deal with the reporting of patients' names and addresses.  17
I
The District Court found that the State had been unable to demonstrate the necessity for the patient-identification requirement on the basis of its experience during the first 20 months of administration of the new statute.  There was a time when that alone would have provided a basis for invalidating the statute.  Lochner v. New York, 198 U.S. 45, involved legislation making it a crime for a baker to permit his employees to work more than 60 hours in a week.  In an opinion no longer regarded as authoritative, the Court held the statute unconstitutional as "an unreasonable, unnecessary and arbitrary interference with the right of the individual to his personal liberty...." Id., at 56.
The holding in Lochner has   been implicitly rejected many times.  18  State legislation which has some effect on individual liberty or privacy may not be held unconstitutional simply because a court finds it unnecessary, in whole or in part.  19 For we have frequently recognized that individual States have broad latitude in experimenting with possible solutions to problems of vital local concern.  20
The New York statute challenged in this case represents a considered attempt to deal with such a problem.  It is manifestly the product of an orderly and rational legislative decision.  It was recommended by a specially appointed commission which held extensive hearings on the proposed legislation, and drew on experience with similar programs in other States.  There surely was nothing unreasonable in the assumption that the patient-identification requirement might aid in the enforcement of laws designed to minimize the misuse of dangerous drugs.  For the requirement could reasonably be expected to have a deterrent effect on potential violators 21 as well as to aid in the detection or investigation of specific instances of apparent abuse.  At the very least, it would seem clear that the State's vital interest in controlling the distribution of dangerous drugs would support a decision to experiment with new techniques for control.  22 For if an experiment fails - if in this case experience teaches that the patient-identification requirement results in the foolish expenditure of funds to acquire a mountain of useless information - the legislative process remains available to terminate the unwise experiment. It follows that the legislature's enactment of the patient-identification requirement was a reasonable exercise of New York's broad police powers.  The District Court's finding that the necessity for the requirement had not been proved is not, therefore, a sufficient reason for holding the statutory requirement unconstitutional.
II
Appellees contend that the statute invades a constitutionally protected "zone of privacy." 23 The   cases sometimes   characterized as protecting "privacy" have in fact involved at least two different kinds of interests.  24 One is the individual interest in avoiding disclosure of personal matters, 25 and another is the interest in independence in making certain kinds of important decisions. 26 Appellees argue that both of these interests are impaired by this statute.  The mere existence in readily available form of the information about patients' use of Schedule II drugs creates a genuine concern that the information will become publicly known and that it will adversely affect their reputations.  This concern makes some patients reluctant to use, and some doctors reluctant to prescribe, such drugs even when their use is medically indicated.  It follows, they argue, that the making of decisions about matters vital to the care of their health is inevitably affected by the statute.  Thus, the statute threatens to impair both their interest in the nondisclosure of private information and also their interest in making important decisions independently.
We are persuaded, however, that the New York program does not, on its face, pose a sufficiently grievous threat to either interest to establish a constitutional violation.
Public disclosure of patient information can come about in three ways.  Health Department employees may violate the statute by failing, either deliberately or negligently, to maintain proper security.  A patient or a doctor may be accused of a violation and the stored data may be offered in evidence in a judicial proceeding.  Or, thirdly, a doctor, a pharmacist, or the patient may voluntarily reveal information on a prescription form.
The third possibility existed under the prior law and is entirely unrelated to the existence of the computerized data bank. Neither of the other two possibilities provides a proper ground for attacking the statute as invalid on its face.  There is no support in the record, or in the experience of the two States that New York has emulated, for an assumption that the security provisions of the statute will be administered improperly.  27 And the remote possibility that judicial supervision of the   evidentiary use of particular items of stored information will provide inadequate protection against unwarranted disclosures is surely not a sufficient reason for invalidating the entire patient-identification program. 28
Even without public disclosure, it is, of course, true that private information must be disclosed to the authorized employees of the New York Department of Health.  Such disclosures, however, are not significantly different from those that were required under the prior law.  Nor are they meaningfully distinguishable from a host of other unpleasant invasions of privacy that are associated with many facets of health care.  Unquestionably, some individuals' concern for their own privacy may lead them to avoid or to postpone needed medical attention.  Nevertheless, disclosures of private medical information to doctors, to hospital personnel, to insurance companies,  and to public health agencies are often an essential part of modern medical practice even when the disclosure may reflect unfavorably on the character of the patient. 29 Requiring such disclosures to representatives of the State having responsibility for the health of the community, does not automatically amount to an impermissible invasion of privacy.
Appellees also argue, however, that even if unwarranted disclosures do not actually occur, the knowledge that the information is readily available in a computerized file creates a genuine concern that causes some persons to decline needed medication. The record supports the conclusion that some use of Schedule II drugs has been discouraged by that concern; it also is clear, however, that about 100,000 prescriptions for such drugs were being filled each month prior to the entry of the District Court's injunction.  Clearly, therefore, the statute did not deprive the public of access to the drugs.
Nor can it be said that any individual has been deprived of the right to decide independently, with the advice of his physician, to acquire and to use needed medication. Although the State no doubt could prohibit entirely the use of particular Schedule II drugs, 30 it has not done so.  This case is therefore unlike those in which the Court held that a total prohibition of certain conduct was an impermissible deprivation of liberty.  Nor does the State require access to these drugs to be conditioned on the consent of any state official or other third party.  31 Within dosage limits which appellees do not challenge, the decision to prescribe, or to use, is left entirely to the physician and the patient.
We hold that   neither the immediate nor the threatened impact of the patient-identification requirements in the New York State Controlled Substances Act of 1972 on either the reputation or the independence of patients for whom Schedule II drugs are medically indicated is sufficient to constitute an   invasion of any right or liberty protected by the Fourteenth Amendment.  32
III
The appellee doctors argue separately that the statute impairs their right to practice medicine free of unwarranted state interference.  If the doctors' claim has any reference to the impact of the 1972 statute on their own procedures, it is clearly frivolous.  For even the prior statute required the doctor to prepare a written prescription identifying the name and address of the patient and the dosage of the prescribed drug.  To the extent that their claim has reference to the possibility that the patients' concern about disclosure may induce them to refuse needed medication, the doctors' claim is derivative from, and therefore no stronger than, the patients'. 33 Our rejection of their claim therefore disposes of the doctors' as well.
IV
A final word about issues we have not decided.  We are not unaware of the threat to privacy implicit in the accumulation of vast amounts of personal information in computerized data banks or other massive government files.  34 The collection of taxes, the distribution of welfare and social security benefits, the supervision of public health, the direction of our Armed Forces, and the enforcement of the criminal laws all require the orderly preservation of great quantities of information, much of which is personal in character and potentially embarrassing or harmful if disclosed.  The right to collect and use such data for public purposes is typically accompanied by a concomitant statutory or regulatory duty to avoid unwarranted disclosures. Recognizing that in some circumstances that duty arguably has its roots in the Constitution, nevertheless New York's statutory scheme, and its implementing administrative procedures, evidence a proper concern with, and protection of, the individual's interest in privacy. We therefore need not, and do not, decide any question which might be presented by the unwarranted disclosure of accumulated private data - whether intentional or unintentional - or by a system that did not contain comparable security provisions.  We simply hold that this record does not establish an invasion of any right or liberty protected by the Fourteenth Amendment.
Reversed.
<concur author="BRENNAN" text="TRUE">
CONCUR BY: BRENNAN; STEWART
MR. JUSTICE BRENNAN, concurring.
I write only to express my understanding of the opinion of the Court, which I join.
The New York statute under attack requires doctors to disclose to the State information about prescriptions for certain drugs with a high potential for abuse, and provides for the storage of that information in a central computer file.  The Court recognizes that an individual's "interest in avoiding disclosure of personal matters" is an aspect of the right of privacy, ante, at 598-600, and nn. 24-25, but holds that in this case, any such interest has not been seriously enough invaded by the State to require a showing that its program was indispensable to the State's effort to control drug abuse.
The information disclosed by the physician under this program is made available only to a small number of public health officials with a legitimate interest in the information.  As the record makes clear, New York has long required doctors to make this information available to its officials on request, and that   practice is not challenged here.  Such limited reporting requirements in the medical field are familiar, ante, at 602 n. 29, and are not generally regarded as an invasion of privacy. Broad dissemination by state officials of such information, however, would clearly implicate constitutionally protected privacy rights, and would presumably be justified only by compelling state interests.  See, e.g., Roe v. Wade, 410 U.S. 113, 155-156 (1973).
What is more troubling about this scheme, however, is the central computer storage of the data thus collected.  Obviously, as the State argues, collection and storage of data by the State that is in itself legitimate is not rendered unconstitutional simply because new technology makes the State's operations more efficient.  However, as the example of the Fourth Amendment shows, the Constitution puts limits not only on the type of information the State may gather, but also on the means it may use to gather it.  The central storage and easy accessibility of computerized data vastly increase the potential for abuse of that information, and I am not prepared to say that future developments will not demonstrate the necessity of some curb on such technology.
In this case, as the Court's opinion makes clear, the State's carefully designed program includes numerous safeguards intended to forestall the danger of indiscriminate disclosure. Given this serious and, so far as the record shows, successful effort to prevent abuse and limit access to the personal information at issue, I cannot say that the statute's provisions for computer storage, on their face, amount to a deprivation of constitutionally protected privacy interests, any more than the more traditional reporting provisions.
In the absence of such a deprivation, the State was not required to prove that the challenged statute is absolutely necessary to its attempt to control drug abuse.  Of course, a statute that did effect such a deprivation would only be consistent with the Constitution if it were necessary to promote a compelling state interest.  Roe v. Wade, supra; Eisenstadt v. Baird, 405 U.S. 438, 464 (1972) (WHITE, J., concurring in result).
<concur author="STEWART" text="TRUE">
MR. JUSTICE STEWART, concurring.
In Katz v. United States, 389 U.S. 347, the Court made clear that although the Constitution affords protection against certain kinds of government intrusions into personal and private matters, 1 there is no "general constitutional 'right   to privacy.'...  he protection of a person's general right to privacy - his right to be let alone by other people - is, like the protection of his property and of his very life, left largely to the law of the individual States." Id., at 350-351 (footnote omitted).
MR. JUSTICE BRENNAN'S concurring opinion states that "road dissemination by state officials of ... would clearly implicate constitutionally protected privacy rights...." Ante, at 606. The only possible support in his opinion for this statement is its earlier reference to two footnotes in the Court's opinion, ibid., citing ante, at 598-600, and nn. 24-25 (majority opinion).  The footnotes, however, cite to only two Court opinions, and those two cases do not support the proposition advanced by MR. JUSTICE BRENNAN.
The first case referred to, Griswold v. Connecticut, 381 U.S. 479, held that a State cannot constitutionally prohibit a married couple from using contraceptives in the privacy of their home.  Although the broad language of the opinion includes a discussion of privacy, see id., at 484-485, the constitutional protection there discovered also related to (1) marriage, see id., at 485-486; id., at 495 (Goldberg, J., concurring); id., at 500 (Harlan, J., concurring in judgment), citing Poe v. Ullman, 367 U.S. 497, 522 (Harlan, J., dissenting); 381 U.S., at 502-503 (WHITE, J., concurring in judgment); (2) privacy in the home, see id., at 484-485 (majority opinion); id., at 495 (Goldberg, J., concurring); id., at (Harlan, J., concurring in judgment), citing Poe v. Ullman, supra, at 522 (Harlan, J., dissenting); and (3) the right to use contraceptives, see 381 U.S., at 503 (WHITE, J., concurring in judgment); see also Roe v. Wade, 410 U.S. 113, 169-170 (STEWART, J., concurring).Whatever the ratio decidendi of Griswold, it does not recognize a general interest in freedom from disclosure of private information.
The other case referred to, Stanleyv. Georgia, 394 U.S. 557, held that an individual cannot constitutionally be prosecuted for possession of obscene materials in his home.  Although Stanley makes some reference to privacy rights, id., at 564, the holding there was simply that the First Amendment - as made applicable to the States by the Fourteenth - protects a person's right to read what he chooses in circumstances where that choice poses no threat to the sensibilities or welfare of others, id., at 565-568.
Upon the understanding that nothing the Court says today is contrary to the above views, I join its opinion and judgment.
