PER CURIAM.
This appeal brings before us for the second time the Utah Supreme Court's construction of   Utah Code Ann.  ยง 15-2-1 (1973), 1 which established 21 as the age of majority for males, and 18 as the age for females, as applied to a parent's obligation to support his children.  In our first opinion, we held that this distinction between males and females violated the Equal Protection Clause of the Fourteenth Amendment of the United States Constitution.  Stanton  v. Stanton,  421 U.S. 7 (1975) (Stanton I).  2  We, of course, did not decide how Utah was to eliminate the discrimination between the   genders, and thereby to determine at what age the appellee's duty to support his daughter terminated.  Instead, we remanded the case to the Utah court for it to resolve this issue of state law.  Id.,  at 17-18. Our mandate also directed that appellant should receive $437.38 for her costs on appeal to this Court.
On the remand, the Utah Supreme Court did not consider the issue presented to it and held, instead, that the age-of-majority statute was constitutional as applied to females without considering the discrimination.  That action does not comply with our mandate.
Upon receiving the mandate in Stanton I,  the Utah Supreme Court remanded the case, without directions, to the District Court of Salt Lake County.  That court correctly recognized, pursuant to the parties' stipulation, that the only issue before it was whether, in the absence of a validly-worded statutory provision governing child support age of majority, both sexes should be deemed to attain majority either at age 18 or at age 21.  It resolved the issue by holding that, "for purposes of child support, children attain their majority at age 21." Accordingly, it awarded appellant a total of $3,646.18, consisting of $2,700 past due support money, $508.80 interest on the judgment, and the $437.38 costs award from this Court.
On appeal, the Utah Supreme Court, by a 3-2 vote, reversed. 552 P.2d 112 (1976).Instead of deciding the issue before it, the majority   held that the portion of the statute setting the age for females could be viewed in isolation from the portion setting the age for males: S
"Obviously the two provisions of the statute are separable and the Supreme Court of the United States in remanding this matter directed that we decide which age was correct and then legislate a bit on our own and say that the age of majority so chosen for the one sex is also the age of majority for the other sex.
"The oath we took when chosen as justices of the Supreme Court of Utah forbids us to encroach on the duties and functions of the legislature.  However, we need not make any such determination.  The age of the male child in this divorce case has never been called into question." Id.,  at 113.I
The court reasoned that the only child before it was a female and, therefore, that the age of 18 provided in ยง 15-2-1 was constitutional and still applied. As further support for its result, the court declared that the mother had no interest in the equal protection issue and that the parties expected the age discrepancy to apply when the divorce decree was drafted.  Finally, as if to erase any remaining doubt about the basis of its decision, the court declared: S
"Regardless of what a judge may think about equality, his thinking cannot change the facts of life....
"To judicially hold that males and females attain their maturity at the same age is to be blind to the biological facts of life." Id.,  at 114.I
The court then undertook to reverse the entire judgment of the District Court, even including the $437.38 derived from this Court's mandate.  3
This decision, obviously, is inconsistent with our opinion in Stanton I.   The thrust of Stanton I,  and therefore the starting point for the Utah court on remand, was that   males and females cannot be treated differently for child-support purposes consistently with the Equal Protection Clause of the United States Constitution.  Cf.  Craig  v. Boren,  429 U.S. 190 (1976). Apparently the Utah Supreme Court did not read our opinion as requiring that the child-support law must be nondiscriminatory to comply with the constitutional standard.  That, of course, is a misunderstanding.  Accordingly, the judgment of the Utah Supreme Court is vacated, and the case once again is remanded for further proceedings not inconsistent with this opinion.  4
DISSENT BY: STEVENS (In Part)
MR. JUSTICE STEVENS, dissenting in part.
Petitions for rehearing perform the wholesome function of providing the losing litigant with a legitimate forum for adverse comment on an adverse decision. Appellate judges soon learn to discount hyperbole in such petitions.
Judges who are reversed by a higher court sometimes need a similar outlet, particularly when they remain convinced that their original decision was correct.  For this reason opinions on remand should occasionally be read with tolerance and understanding, and the question whether this Court's mandate has been violated should be answered by reference to the judgment  entered by the lower court rather than by reaction to a few unnecessary and unfortunate sentences in a separate opinion joined by only two of six members voting.
In 1975 this Court held ยง 15-2-1 of the Utah Code unconstitutional and directed the State of Utah to eliminate that statute's discrimination between males and females. Utah was free to select the age of 21 or the age of 18 as the age of majority for all its citizens.  Thereafter as Justice Ellett pointed out in his separate opinion, the "Legislature of Utah, in an attempt to satisfy the justices of the Supreme Court of the United States, passed an amendment to Section 15-2-1, U.C.A. 1953, so that it now reads: 'The period of minority extends in males and females to the age of eighteen years....'" 1 This amendment applied only after its passage in 1975.
When this case reached the Utah Supreme Court for the second time in 1976, that court held that the pre-amendment age of majority was 18.  The reasons given in the three separate opinions of the Justices constituting the majority of the court are not, in my judgment, nearly as persuasive as Justice Maughan's dissenting opinion.  But, as Justice Maughan clearly recognized, the state court had the power to decide that the age of majority for both males and females under this statute prior to its amendment was either 18 or 21.  The Utah Supreme Court has now held that it was 18.  Even though the explanation of that holding makes reference only to females, once that determination has been made as a matter of Utah law, it applies by force of the Federal Constitution to males as well as females. Accordingly, both before and after the 1975 amendment to ยง 15-2-1, the statutory age of majority for both males and females in Utah was 18, not 21.  The lower Utah courts are so interpreting the Utah Supreme Court decision.  2
The judgment of the Utah Supreme Court was therefore consistent with this Court's mandate, except, of course, for its disallowance of costs.  Other than an order allowing appropriate costs, there is no need for any further proceedings (or opinion writing) in that court.  I therefore respectfully dissent from this Court's action.
