OPINION
MR. JUSTICE POWELL delivered the opinion of the Court.
This case presents questions concerning the use of corporal punishment in public schools: First, whether the paddling of students as a means of maintaining school discipline constitutes cruel and unusual punishment in violation of the Eighth Amendment; and, second, to the extent that paddling is constitutionally permissible, whether the Due Process Clause of the Fourteenth Amendment requires prior notice and an opportunity to be heard.
I
Petitioners James Ingraham and Roosevelt Andrews filed the complaint in this case on January 7, 1971, in the United States District Court for the Southern District of Florida.  1 At the time both were enrolled in the Charles R. Drew Junior High School in Dade County, Fla., Ingraham in the eighth grade and Andrews in the ninth.  The complaint contained three counts, each alleging a separate cause of action for deprivation of constitutional rights, under 42 U.S.C.  §§ 1981-1988.  Counts one and two were individual actions for damages by Ingraham and Andrews based on paddling incidents that allegedly occurred in October 1970 at Drew Junior High School.  Count three was a class action for declaratory and injunctive relief filed on behalf of all students in the Dade County schools.  2 Named as defendants in all counts were respondents Willie J. Wright (principal at Drew Junior High School), Lemmie Deliford (an assistant principal), Solomon Barnes (an assistant to the principal), and Edward L. Whigham (superintendent of the Dade County School System).  3
Petitioners presented their evidence at a week-long trial before the District Court.  At the close of petitioners' case, respondents moved for dismissal of count three "on the ground that upon the facts and the law the plaintiff has shown no right to relief," Fed. Rule Civ. Proc. 41 (b), and for a ruling that the evidence would be insufficient to go to a jury on counts one and two.  4 The District Court granted the motion as to all three counts, and dismissed the complaint without hearing evidence on behalf of the school authorities. App. 142-150.
Petitioners' evidence may be summarized briefly.  In the 1970-1971 school year many of the 237 schools in Dade County used corporal punishment as a means of maintaining discipline pursuant to Florida legislation and a local School Board regulation.  5 The statute then in effect authorized limited corporal punishment by negative inference, proscribing punishment which was "degrading or unduly severe" or which was inflicted without prior consultation with the principal or the teacher in charge of the school.  Fla. Stat. Ann.  § 232.27 (1961).  6 The regulation, Dade County School Board Policy   5144, contained explicit directions and limitations.  7 The authorized punishment consisted of paddling the recalcitrant student on the buttocks with a flat wooden paddle measuring less than two feet long, three to four inches wide, and about one-half inch thick.  The normal punishment was limited to one to five "licks" or blows with the paddle and resulted in   no apparent physical injury to the student.  School authorities viewed corporal punishment as a less drastic means of discipline than suspension or expulsion. Contrary to the procedural requirements of the statute and regulation, teachers often paddled students on their own authority without first consulting the principal.  8
Petitioners focused on Drew Junior High School, the school in which both Ingraham and Andrews were enrolled in the fall of 1970.  In an apparent reference to Drew, the District Court found that "he instances of punishment which could be characterized as severe, accepting the students' testimony as credible, took place in one junior high school." App. 147.  The evidence, consisting mainly of the testimony of 16 students, suggests that the regime at Drew was exceptionally harsh.  The testimony of Ingraham and Andrews, in support of their individual claims for damages, is illustrative.  Because he was slow to respond to his teacher's instructions, Ingraham was subjected to more than 20 licks with a paddle while being held over a table in the principal's office. The paddling was so severe that he suffered a hematoma 9 requiring medical   attention and keeping him out of school for several days.  10 Andrews was paddled several times for minor infractions.  On two occasions he was struck on his arms, once depriving him of the full use of his arm for a week. 11
The District Court made no findings on the credibility of the students' testimony.  Rather, assuming their testimony to be credible, the court found no constitutional basis for relief.  With respect to count three,  the class action, the court concluded that the punishment authorized and practiced generally in the county schools violated no constitutional right.  Id., at 143, 149.  With respect to counts one and two, the individual damages actions, the court concluded that while corporal punishment could in some cases violate the Eighth Amendment, in this case a jury could not lawfully find "the elements of severity, arbitrary infliction, unacceptability in terms of contemporary standards, or gross disproportion which are necessary to bring 'punishment' to the constitutional level of 'cruel and unusual punishment.'" Id., at 143.
A panel of the Court of Appeals voted to reverse.  498 F. 2d 248 (CA5 1974). The panel concluded that the punishment was so severe and oppressive as to violate the Eighth and Fourteenth Amendments, and that the procedures outlined in Policy 5144 failed to satisfy the requirements of the Due Process Clause.  Upon rehearing, the en banc court rejected these conclusions and affirmed the judgment of the District Court.  525 F. 2d 909 (1976). The full court held that the Due Process Clause did not require notice or an opportunity to be heard: S
"In essence, we refuse to set forth, as constitutionally mandated, procedural standards for an activity which is not substantial enough, on a constitutional level, to justify the time and effort which would have to be expended by the school in adhering to those procedures or to justify further interference by federal courts into the internal affairs of public schools." Id., at 919.I
The court also rejected the petitioners' substantive contentions.  The Eighth Amendment, in the court's view, was simply inapplicable to corporal punishment in public schools. Stressing the likelihood of civil and criminal liability in state law, if petitioners' evidence were believed, the court held that "he administration of corporal punishment in public schools, whether or not excessively administered, does not come within the scope of Eighth Amendment protection." Id., at 915. Nor was there any substantive violation of the Due Process Clause.  The court noted that "addling of recalcitrant children has long been an accepted method of promoting good behavior and instilling notions of responsibility and decorum into the mischievous heads of school children." Id., at 917. The court refused to examine instances of punishment individually:
"We think it a misuse of our judicial power to determine, for example, whether a teacher has acted arbitrarily in paddling a particular child for certain behavior or whether in a particular instance of misconduct five licks would have been a more appropriate punishment than ten licks...." Ibid.
We granted certiorari, limited to the questions of cruel and unusual punishment and procedural due process.  425 U.S. 990. 12
II
In addressing the scope of the Eighth Amendment's prohibition on cruel and unusual punishment, this Court has found it useful to refer to "raditional common-law concepts," Powell v. Texas, 392 U.S. 514, 535 (1968) (plurality opinion), and to the  which our society has traditionally taken." Id., at 531. So, too, in defining the requirements of procedural due process under the Fifth and Fourteenth Amendments, the Court has been attuned to what "has always been the law of the land," United States v. Barnett, 376 U.S. 681, 692 (1964), and to "traditional ideas of fair procedure." Greene v. McElroy, 360 U.S. 474, 508 (1959). We therefore begin by examining the way in which our traditions and our laws have responded to the use of corporal punishment in public schools.
The use of corporal punishment in this country as a means of disciplining schoolchildren dates back to the colonial period.  13 It has survived the transformation of primary and secondary education from the colonials' reliance on optional private arrangements to our present system of compulsory education and dependence on public schools. 14 Despite the general abandonment of corporal punishment as a means of punishing criminal offenders, 15 the practice continues to play a role in the public education of schoolchildren in most parts of the country.  16 Professional and public opinion is sharply divided on the practice, 17 and has been for more than a century.  18 Yet we can discern no trend toward its elimination.
At common law a single principle has governed the use of corporal punishment since before the American Revolution: Teachers may impose reasonable but not excessive force to discipline a child.  19 Blackstone catalogued among the "absolute rights of individuals" the right "to security from the corporal insults of menaces, assaults, beating, and wounding," 1 W. Blackstone, Commentaries * 134, but he did not regard it a "corporal insult" for a teacher to inflict "moderate correction" on a child in his care.  To the extent that force was "necessary to answer the purposes for which  is employed," Blackstone viewed it as "justifiable or lawful." Id., at * 453; 3 id., at * 120.  The basic doctrine has not changed.  The prevalent rule in this country today privileges such force as a teacher or administrator "reasonably believes to be necessary for  proper control, training, or education." Restatement (Second) of Torts § 147 (2) (1965); see id., § 153 (2). To the extent that the force is excessive or unreasonable, the educator in virtually all States is subject to possible civil and criminal liability.  20
Although the early cases viewed the authority of the teacher as deriving from the parents, 21 the concept of parental delegation has been replaced by the view - more consonant with compulsory education laws - that the State itself may impose such corporal punishment as is reasonably necessary "for the proper education of the child and for the maintenance of group discipline." 1 F. Harper & F. James, Law of Torts § 3.20, p. 292 (1956).  22 All of the circumstances are to be taken into account in determining whether the punishment is reasonable in a particular case.  Among the most important considerations are the seriousness of the offense, the attitude and past behavior of the child, the nature and severity of the punishment, the age and strength of the child, and the availability of less severe but equally effective means of discipline. Id., at 290-291; Restatement (Second) of Torts § 150, Comments c-e, p. 268 (1965).
Of the 23 States that have addressed the problem through legislation, 21 have authorized the moderate use of corporal punishment in public schools. 23 Of these States only a few  have elaborated on the common-law test of reasonableness, typically providing for approval or notification of the child's parents, 24 or for infliction of punishment only by the principal 25 or in the presence of an adult witness.  26 Only two States, Massachusetts and New Jersey, have prohibited all corporal punishment in their public schools. 27 Where the legislatures have not acted, the state courts have uniformly preserved the common-law rule permitting teachers to use reasonable force in disciplining children in their charge.  28
Against this background of historical and contemporary approval of reasonable corporal punishment, we turn to the constitutional questions before us.
III
The Eighth Amendment provides: "Excessive bail shall not be required, nor excessive fines imposed, nor cruel and unusual punishments inflicted." Bail, fines, and punishment traditionally have been associated with the criminal process, and by subjecting the three to parallel limitations the text of the Amendment suggests an intention to limit the power of those entrusted with the criminal-law function of government.  An examination of the history of the Amendment and the decisions of this Court construing the proscription against cruel and unusual punishment confirms that it was designed to protect those convicted of crimes.  We adhere to this longstanding limitation and hold that the Eighth Amendment does not apply to the paddling of children as a means of maintaining discipline in public schools.
A
The history of the Eighth Amendment is well known.29 The text was taken, almost verbatim, from a provision of the Virginia Declaration of Rights of 1776, which in turn derived from the English Bill of Rights of 1689.  The English version, adopted after the accession of William and Mary, was intended to curb the excesses of English judges under the reign of James II.  Historians have viewed the English provision as a reaction either to the "Bloody Assize," the treason trials conducted by Chief Justice Jeffreys in 1685 after the abortive rebellion of the Duke of Monmouth, 30 or to the perjury prosecution of Titus Oates in the same year.  31 In either case, the exclusive concern of the English version was the conduct of judges in enforcing the criminal law.  The original draft introduced in the House of Commons provided: 32
"The requiring excessive bail of persons committed in criminal cases and imposing excessive fines, and illegal punishments, to be prevented."
Although the reference to "criminal cases" was eliminated from the final draft, the preservation of a similar reference in the preamble 33 indicates that the deletion was without substantive significance.  Thus, Blackstone treated each of the provision's three prohibitions as bearing only on criminal proceedings and judgments.  34
The Americans who adopted the language of this part of the English Bill of Rights in framing their own State and Federal Constitutions 100 years later feared the imposition of torture and other cruel punishments not only by judges acting beyond their lawful authority, but also by legislatures engaged in making the laws by which judicial authority would be measured.  Weems v. United States, 217 U.S. 349, 371-373 (1910). Indeed, the principal concern of the American Framers appears to have been with the legislative definition of crimes and punishments.  In re Kemmler, 136 U.S. 436, 446-447 (1890); Furman v. Georgia, 408 U.S. 238, 263 (1972) (BRENNAN, J., concurring).  But if the American provision was intended to restrain government more broadly than its English model, the subject to which it was intended to apply - the criminal process - was the same.
At the time of its ratification, the original Constitution was criticized in the Massachusetts and Virginia Conventions for its failure to provide any protection for persons convicted of crimes.  35 This criticism provided the impetus for inclusion of the Eighth Amendment in the Bill of Rights.  When the Eighth Amendment was debated in the First Congress, it was met by the objection that the Cruel and Unusual Punishments Clause might have the effect of outlawing what were then the common criminal punishments of hanging, whipping, and earcropping.  1 Annals of Cong. 754 (1789).  The objection was not heeded, "precisely because the legislature would otherwise have had the unfettered power to prescribe punishments for crimes." Furman v. Georgia, supra, at 263.
B
In light of this history, it is not surprising to find that every decision of this Court considering whether a punishment is "cruel and unusual" within the meaning of the Eighth and Fourteenth Amendments has dealt with a criminal punishment.  See Estelle v. Gamble, 429 U.S. 97 (1976) (incarceration without medical care); Gregg v. Georgia, 428 U.S. 153 (1976) (execution for murder); Furman v. Georgia, supra (execution for murder); Powell v. Texas, 392 U.S. 514 (1968) (plurality opinion) ( $ 20 fine for public drunkenness); Robinson v. California, 370 U.S. 660 (1962) (incarceration as a criminal for addiction to narcotics); Trop v. Dulles, 356 U.S. 86 (1958) (plurality opinion) (expatriation for desertion); Louisiana ex rel.  Francis v. Resweber, 329 U.S. 459 (1947) (execution by electrocution after a failed first attempt); Weems v. United States, supra (15 years' imprisonment and other penalties for falsifying an official document); Howard v. Fleming, 191 U.S. 126 (1903) (10 years' imprisonment for conspiracy to defraud); In re Kemmler, supra  (execution by electrocution); Wilkerson v. Utah, 99 U.S. 130 (1879) (execution by firing squad); Pervear v. Commonwealth, 5 Wall.  475 (1867) (fine and imprisonment at hard labor for bootlegging).
These decisions recognize that the Cruel and Unusual Punishments Clause circumscribes the criminal process in three ways: First, it limits the kinds of punishment that can be imposed on those convicted of crimes, e.g., Estelle v. Gamble, supra; Trop v. Dulles, supra; second, it proscribes punishment grossly disproportionate to the severity of the crime, e.g., Weems v. United States, supra; and third, it imposes substantive limits on what can be made criminal and punished as such, e.g., Robinson v. California, supra. We have recognized the last limitation as one to be applied sparingly. "The primary purpose of   has always been considered, and properly so, to be directed at the method or kind of punishment imposed for the violation of criminal statutes...." Powell v. Texas, supra, at 531-532 (plurality opinion).
In the few cases where the Court has had occasion to confront claims that impositions outside the criminal process constituted cruel and unusual punishment, it has had no difficulty finding the Eighth Amendment inapplicable.  Thus, in Fong Yue Ting v. United States, 149 U.S. 698 (1893), the Court held the Eighth Amendment inapplicable to the deportation of aliens on the ground that "deportation is not a punishment for crime." Id., at 730; see Mahler v. Eby, 264 U.S. 32 (1924); Bugajewitz v. Adams, 228 U.S. 585 (1913). And in Uphaus v. Wyman, 360 U.S. 72 (1959), the Court sustained a judgment of civil contempt, resulting in incarceration pending compliance with a subpoena, against a claim that the judgment imposed cruel and unusual punishment. It was emphasized that the case involved "'essentially a civil remedy designed for the benefit of other parties... exercised for centuries to secure compliance with judicial decrees.'" Id., at 81, quoting Green v. United States, 356 U.S. 165, 197 (1958) (dissenting opinion).  36
C
Petitioners acknowledge that the original design of the Cruel and Unusual Punishments Clause was to limit criminal punishments, but urge nonetheless that the prohibition should be extended to ban the paddling of schoolchildren. Observing that the Framers of the Eighth Amendment could not have envisioned our present system of public and compulsory education, with its opportunities for noncriminal punishments, petitioners contend that extension of the prohibition against cruel punishments is necessary lest we afford greater protection to criminals than to schoolchildren.It would be anomalous, they say, if schoolchildren could be beaten without constitutional redress, while hardened criminals suffering the same beatings at the hands of their jailers might have a valid claim under the Eighth Amendment. See Jackson v. Bishop, 404 F. 2d 571 (CA8 1968); cf.  Estelle v. Gamble, supra. Whatever force this logic may have in other settings, 37 we find it an inadequate basis for wrenching the Eighth Amendment from its historical context and extending it to traditional disciplinary practices in the public schools.
The prisoner and the schoolchild stand in wholly different circumstances, separated by the harsh facts of criminal conviction and incarceration.  The prisoner's conviction entitles the State to classify him as a "criminal," and his incarceration deprives him of the freedom "to be with family and friends and to form the other enduring attachments of normal life." Morrissey v. Brewer, 408 U.S. 471, 482 (1972); see Meachum v. Fano, 427 U.S. 215, 224-225 (1976). Prison brutality, as the Court of Appeals observed in this case, is "part of the total punishment to which the individual is being subjected for his crime and, as such, is a proper subject for Eighth Amendment scrutiny." 525 F. 2d, at 915. 38 Even so, the protection afforded   by the Eighth Amendment is limited.  After incarceration, only the "'unnecessary and wanton infliction of pain,'" Estelle v. Gamble, 429 U.S., at 103, quoting Gregg v. Georgia, 428 U.S., at 173, constitutes cruel and unusual punishment forbidden by the Eighth Amendment.
The schoolchild has little need for the protection of the Eighth Amendment. Though attendance may not always be voluntary, the public school remains an open institution.  Except perhaps when very young, the child is not physically restrained from leaving school during school hours; and at the end of the school day, the child is invariably free to return home.  Even while at school, the child brings with him the support of family and friends and is rarely apart from teachers and other pupils who may witness and protest any instances of mistreatment.
The openness of the public school and its supervision by the community afford significant safeguards against the kinds of abuses from which the Eighth Amendment protects the prisoner. In virtually every community where corporal punishment is permitted in the schools, these safeguards are reinforced by the legal constraints of the common law.   Public school teachers and administrators are privileged at common law to inflict only such corporal punishment as is reasonably necessary for the proper education and discipline of the child; any punishment going beyond the privilege may result in both civil and criminal liability.  See Part II, supra. As long as the schools are open to public scrutiny, there is no reason to believe that the common-law constraints will not effectively remedy and deter excesses such as those alleged in this case.  39
We conclude that   when public school teachers or administrators impose disciplinary corporal punishment, the Eighth Amendment is inapplicable.  The pertinent constitutional question is whether the imposition is consonant with the requirements of due process.  40
IV
The Fourteenth Amendment prohibits any state deprivation of life, liberty, or property without due process of law. Application of this prohibition requires the familiar two-stage analysis: We must first ask whether the asserted individual interests are encompassed within the Fourteenth Amendment's protection of "life, liberty or property"; if protected interests are implicated, we then must decide what procedures constitute "due process of law." Morrissey v. Brewer, 408 U.S., at 481; Board of Regents v. Roth, 408 U.S. 564, 569-572 (1972). See Friendly, Some Kind of Hearing, 123 U. Pa. L. Rev. 1267 (1975). Following that analysis here, we find that   corporal punishment in public schools implicates a constitutionally protected liberty interest, but we hold that the traditional common-law remedies are fully adequate to afford due process.
A
"
range of interests protected by procedural due process is not infinite." Board of Regents v. Roth, supra, at 570 . We have repeatedly rejected "the notion that any grievous loss visited upon a person by the State is sufficient to invoke the procedural protections of the Due Process Clause." Meachum v. Fano, 427 U.S., at 224.   Due process is required only when a decision of the State implicates an interest within the protection of the Fourteenth Amendment. And "to determine whether due process requirements apply in the first place, we must look not to the 'weight' but to the nature of the interest at stake." Roth, supra, at 570-571.
The Due Process Clause of the Fifth Amendment, later incorporated into the Fourteenth, was intended to give Americans at least the protection against governmental power that they had enjoyed as Englishmen against the power of the Crown.  The liberty preserved from deprivation without due process included the right "generally to enjoy those privileges long recognized at common law as essential to the orderly pursuit of happiness by free men." Meyer v. Nebraska, 262 U.S. 390, 399 (1923); see Dent v. West Virginia, 129 U.S. 114, 123-124 (1889). Among the historic liberties so protected was a right to be free from, and to obtain judicial relief for, unjustified intrusions on personal security.  41
While the contours of this historic liberty interest in the context of our federal system of government have not been defined precisely, 42 they always have been   thought to encompass freedom from bodily restraint and punishment.  See Rochin v. California, 342 U.S. 165 (1952). It is fundamental that the state cannot hold and physically punish an individual except in accordance with due process of law.
This constitutionally protected liberty interest is at stake in this case.  There is, of course, a de minimis level of imposition with which the Constitution is not concerned.  But at least   where school authorities, acting under color of state law, deliberately decide to punish a child for misconduct by restraining the child and inflicting appreciable physical pain, we hold that Fourteenth Amendment liberty interests are implicated.  43
B
" question remains what process is due." Morrissey v. Brewer, supra, at 481. Were it not for the common-law privilege permitting teachers to inflict reasonable corporal punishment on children in their care, and the availability of the traditional remedies for abuse, the case for requiring advance procedural safeguards would be strong indeed.  44 But here we deal with a punishment - paddling - within that tradition, and the question is whether the common-law remedies are adequate to afford due process. S
"'ue process,' unlike some legal rules, is not a technical conception with a fixed content unrelated to time, place and circumstances....  Representing a profound attitude of fairness... 'due process' is compounded of history, reason, the past course of decisions, and stout confidence in the strength of the democratic faith which we profess...." Anti-Fascist Comm. v. McGrath, 341 U.S. 123, 162-163 (1951) (Frankfurter, J., concurring).
Whether in this case the common-law remedies for excessive corporal punishment constitute due process of law must turn on an analysis of the competing interests at stake, viewed against the background of "history, reason,  the past course of decisions." The analysis requires consideration of three distinct factors: "First, the private interest that will be affected...; second, the risk of an erroneous deprivation of such interest... and the probable value, if any, of additional or substitute procedural safeguards; and finally, the  interest, including the function involved and the fiscal and administrative burdens that the additional or substitute procedural requirement would entail." Mathews v. Eldridge, 424 U.S. 319, 335 (1976). Cf. Arnett v. Kennedy, 416 U.S. 134, 167-168 (1974) (POWELL, J., concurring).
1
Because it is rooted in history, the child's liberty interest in avoiding corporal punishment while in the care of public school authorities is subject to historical limitations.  Under the common law, an invasion of personal security gave rise to a right to recover damages in a subsequent judicial proceeding.  3 W. Blackstone, Commentaries *120-121.  But the right of recovery was qualified by the concept of justification.  Thus, there could be no recovery against a teacher who gave only "moderate correction" to a child.  Id., at *120.  To the extent that the force used was reasonable in light of its purpose, it was not wrongful, but rather "justifiable or lawful." Ibid.
The concept that reasonable corporal punishment in school is justifiable continues to be recognized in the laws of most States.  See Part II, supra. It represents "the balance struck by this country," Poe v. Ullman, 367 U.S. 497, 542 (1961) (Harlan, J., dissenting), between the child's interest in personal security and the traditional view that some limited corporal punishment may be necessary in the course of a child's education.  Under that longstanding accommodation of interests, there can be no deprivation of substantive rights as long as disciplinary corporal punishment is within the limits of the common-law privilege.
This is not to say that the child's interest in procedural safeguards is insubstantial.  The school disciplinary process is not "a totally accurate, unerring process, never mistaken and never unfair...." Goss v. Lopez, 419 U.S. 565, 579-580 (1975). In any deliberate infliction of corporal punishment on a child who is restrained for that purpose, there is some risk that the intrusion on the child's liberty will be unjustified and therefore unlawful.  In these circumstances the child has a strong interest in procedural safeguards that minimize the risk of wrongful punishment and provide for the resolution of disputed questions of justification.
We turn now to a consideration of the safeguards that are available under applicable Florida law.
2
Florida has continued to recognize, and indeed has strengthened by statute, the common-law right of a child not to be subjected to excessive corporal punishment in school.  Under Florida law the teacher and principal of the school decide in the first instance whether corporal punishment is reasonably necessary under the circumstances in order to discipline a child who has misbehaved.  But they must exercise prudence and restraint.  For Florida has preserved the traditional judicial proceedings for determining whether the punishment was justified.  If the punishment inflicted is later found to have been excessive - not reasonably believed at the time to be necessary for the child's discipline or training - the school authorities inflicting it may be held liable in damages to the child and, if malice is shown, they may be subject to criminal penalties.45
Although students have testified in this case to specific instances of abuse, there is every reason to believe that such mistreatment is an aberration.  The uncontradicted evidence suggests that corporal punishment in the Dade County schools was, "(w]ith the exception of a few cases,... unremarkable in physical severity." App. 147.  Moreover, because paddlings are usually inflicted in response to conduct directly observed by teachers in their presence, the risk that a child will be paddled without cause is typically insignificant.  In the ordinary case, a disciplinary paddling neither threatens seriously to violate any substantive rights nor condemns the child "to suffer grievous loss of any kind." Anti-Fascist Comm. v. McGrath, 341 U.S., at 168 (Frankfurter, J., concurring).
In those cases where severe punishment is contemplated, the available civil and criminal sanctions for abuse - considered in light of the openness of the school environment - afford significant protection against unjustified corporal punishment.  See supra, at 670.  Teachers and school authorities are unlikely to inflict corporal punishment unnecessarily or excessively when a possible consequence of doing so is the institution of civil or criminal proceedings against them.  46
It still may be argued, of course, that the child's liberty interest would be better protected if the common-law remedies were supplemented by the administrative safeguards of prior notice and a hearing.  We have found frequently that some kind of prior hearing is necessary to guard against arbitrary impositions on interests protected by the Fourteenth   Amendment. See, e.g., Board of Regents v. Roth, 408 U.S., at 569-570; Wolff v. McDonnell, 418 U.S. 539, 557-558 (1974); cf. Friendly, 123 U. Pa. L. Rev., at 1275-1277. But where the State has preserved what "has always been the law of the land," United States v. Barnett, 376 U.S. 681 (1964), the case for administrative safeguards is significantly less compelling.  47
There is a relevant analogy in the criminal law.  Although the Fourth Amendment specifically proscribes "seizure" of a person without probable cause, the risk that police will act unreasonably in arresting a suspect is not thought to require an advance determination of the facts.  In United States v. Watson, 423 U.S. 411 (1976), we reaffirmed the traditional common-law rule that police officers may make warrantless public arrests on probable cause.  Although we observed that an advance determination of probable cause by a magistrate would be desirable, we declined "to transform this judicial preference into a constitutional rule when the judgment of the Nation and Congress has for so long been to authorize warrantless public arrests on probable cause...." Id., at 423; see id., at 429 (POWELL, J., concurring).  Despite the distinct possibility that a police officer may improperly assess the facts and thus unconstitutionally deprive an individual of liberty,  we declined to depart from the traditional rule by which the officer's perception is subjected to judicial scrutiny only   after the fact.  48 There is no more reason to depart from tradition and require advance procedural safeguards for intrusions on personal security to which the Fourth Amendment does not apply.
3
But even if the need for advance procedural safeguards were clear, the question would remain whether the incremental benefit could justify the cost.  Acceptance of petitioners' claims would work a transformation in the law governing corporal punishment in Florida and most other States.  Given the impracticability of formulating a rule of procedural due process that varies with the severity of the particular imposition, 49 the prior hearing petitioners seek would have to precede any paddling, however moderate or trivial.
Such a universal constitutional requirement would significantly burden the use of corporal punishment as a disciplinary measure.  Hearings - even informal hearings - require time, personnel, and a diversion of attention from normal school pursuits.  School authorities may well choose to abandon corporal punishment rather than incur the burdens of complying with the procedural requirements.  Teachers, properly concerned with maintaining authority in the classroom, may well prefer to rely on other disciplinary measures - which they may view as less effective - rather than confront the possible disruption that prior notice and a hearing may entail.  50 Paradoxically, such an alteration of disciplinary policy is most likely to occur in the ordinary case where the contemplated punishment is well within the common-law privilege. 51
Elimination or curtailment of corporal punishment would be welcomed by many as a societal advance.  But when such a policy choice may result from this Court's determination of an asserted right to due process, rather than from the normal processes of community debate and legislative action, the societal costs cannot be dismissed as   insubstantial.  52 We are reviewing here a legislative judgment, rooted in history and reaffirmed in the laws of many States, that corporal punishment serves important educational interests.  This judgment must be viewed in light of the disciplinary problems commonplace in the schools.  As noted in Goss v. Lopez, 419 U.S., at 580: "Events calling for discipline are frequent occurrences and sometimes require immediate, effective action." 53 Assessment   of the need for, and the appropriate means of maintaining, school discipline is committed generally to the discretion of school authorities subject to state law.  "he Court has repeatedly emphasized the need for affirming the comprehensive authority of the States and of school officials, consistent with fundamental constitutional safeguards, to prescribe and control conduct in the schools." Tinker v. Des Moines School Dist., 393 U.S. 503, 507 (1969). 54
"
At some point the benefit of an additional safeguard to the individual affected... and to society in terms of increased assurance that the action is just, may be outweighed by the cost." Mathews v. Eldridge, 424 U.S., at 348. We think that point has been reached in this case.  In view of the low incidence of abuse, the openness of our schools, and the common-law safeguards that already exist, the risk of error that may result in violation of a schoolchild's substantive rights can only be regarded as minimal.  Imposing additional administrative safeguards as a constitutional requirement might reduce that risk marginally, but would also entail a significant intrusion into an area of primary educational responsibility.  We conclude that   the Due Process Clause does not require notice and a hearing prior to the imposition of corporal punishment in the public schools, as that practice is authorized and limited by the common law. 55
V
Petitioners cannot prevail on either of the theories before us in this case.  The Eighth Amendment's prohibition against cruel and unusual punishment is inapplicable to school paddlings, and the Fourteenth Amendment's requirement of procedural due process is satisfied by Florida's preservation of common-law constraints and remedies. We therefore agree with the Court of Appeals that petitioners' evidence affords no basis for injunctive relief, and that petitioners cannot recover damages on the basis of any Eighth Amendment or procedural due process violation.
Affirmed.
<dissent author="WHITE_B" text="TRUE">
DISSENT BY: WHITE; STEVENS
MR. JUSTICE WHITE, with whom MR. JUSTICE BRENNAN, MR. JUSTICE MARSHALL, and MR. JUSTICE STEVENS join, dissenting.
Today the Court holds that corporal punishment in public schools, no matter how severe, can never be the subject of the protections afforded by the Eighth Amendment. It also holds that students in the public school systems are not constitutionally entitled to a hearing of any sort before beatings can be inflicted on them.  Because I believe that these holdings are inconsistent with the prior decisions of this Court and are contrary to a reasoned analysis of the constitutional provisions involved, I respectfully dissent.
I
A
The Eighth Amendment places a flat prohibition against the infliction of "cruel and unusual punishments." This reflects a societal judgment that there are some punishments that are so barbaric and inhumane that we will not permit them to be imposed on anyone, no matter how opprobrious the offense.  See Robinson v. California, 370 U.S. 660, 676 (1962) (Douglas, J., concurring).  If there are some punishments that are so barbaric that they may not be imposed for the commission of crimes, designated by our social system as the most thoroughly reprehensible acts an individual can commit, then, a fortiori, similar punishments may not be imposed on persons for less culpable acts, such as breaches of school discipline. Thus, if it is constitutionally impermissible to cut off someone's ear for the commission of murder, it must be unconstitutional to cut off a child's ear for being late to class.1 Although there were no   ears cut off in this case, the record reveals beatings so severe that if they were inflicted on a hardened criminal for the commission of a serious crime, they might not pass constitutional muster.
Nevertheless, the majority holds that the Eighth Amendment "was designed to protect  those convicted of crimes," ante, at 664, relying on a vague and inconclusive recitation of the history of the Amendment.  Yet the constitutional prohibition is against cruel and unusual punishments; nowhere is that prohibition limited or modified by the language of the Constitution. Certainly, the fact that the Framers did not choose to insert the word "criminal" into the language of the Eighth Amendment is strong evidence that the Amendment was designed to prohibit all inhumane or barbaric punishments, no matter what the nature of the offense for which the punishment is imposed.
No one can deny that spanking of schoolchildren is "punishment" under any reasonable reading of the word, for the similarities between spanking in public schools and other forms of punishment are too obvious to ignore.  Like other forms of punishment, spanking of schoolchildren involves an institutionalized response to the violation of some official rule or regulation proscribing certain conduct and is imposed for the purpose of rehabilitating the offender, deterring the offender and others like him from committing the violation in the future, and inflicting some measure of social retribution for the harm that has been done.
B
We are fortunate that in our society punishments that are severe enough to raise a doubt as to their constitutional validity are ordinarily not imposed without first affording the accused the full panoply of procedural safeguards provided by the criminal process.  2 The effect has been that "every decision of this Court considering whether a punishment is 'cruel and unusual' within the meaning of the Eighth and Fourteenth Amendments has dealt with a criminal punishment." Ante, at 666.  The Court would have us believe from this fact that there is a recognized distinction between criminal and noncriminal punishment for purposes of the Eighth Amendment. This is plainly wrong.  "ven a clear legislative classification of a statute as 'non-penal' would not alter the fundamental nature of a plainly penal statute." Trop v. Dulles, 356 U.S. 86, 95 (1958) (plurality opinion).  The relevant inquiry is not whether the offense for which a punishment is inflicted has been labeled as criminal, but whether the purpose of the deprivation is among those ordinarily associated with punishment, such as retribution, rehabilitation, or deterrence.3 Id., at 96.   Cf.  Kennedy v. Mendoza-Martinez, 372 U.S. 144 (1963).
If this purposive approach were followed in the present case, it would be clear that spanking in the Florida public schools is punishment within the meaning of the Eighth Amendment. The District Court found that "orporal punishment is one of a variety of measures employed in the school system for the correction of pupil behavior and the preservation of order." App. 146.  Behavior correction and preservation of order are purposes ordinarily associated with punishment.
Without even mentioning the purposive analysis applied in the prior decisions of this Court, the majority adopts a rule that turns on the label given to the offense for which the punishment is inflicted. Thus, the record in this case reveals that one student at Drew Junior High School received 50 licks with a paddle for allegedly making an obscene telephone call.  Brief for Petitioners 13.  The majority holds that the Eighth Amendment does not prohibit such punishment since it was only inflicted for a breach of school discipline. However, that same conduct is punishable as a misdemeanor under Florida law, Fla. Stat. Ann.  § 365.16 (Supp. 1977) and there can be little doubt that if that same "punishment" had been inflicted by an officer of the state courts for violation of § 365.16, it would have had to satisfy the requirements of the Eighth Amendment.
C
In fact, as the Court recognizes, the Eighth Amendment has never been confined to criminal punishments.  4 Nevertheless, the majority adheres to its view that any protections afforded by the Eighth Amendment must have something to do with   criminals, and it would therefore confine any exceptions to its general rule that only criminal punishments are covered by the Eighth Amendment to abuses inflicted on prisoners. Thus, if a prisoner is beaten mercilessly for a breach of discipline, he is entitled to the protection of the Eighth Amendment, while a schoolchild who commits the same breach of discipline and is similarly beaten is simply not covered.
The purported explanation of this anomaly is the assertion that schoolchildren have no need for the Eighth Amendment. We are told that schools are open institutions, subject to constant public scrutiny; that school children have adequate remedies under state law; 5 and that prisoners suffer the social stigma of being labeled as criminals.  How any of these policy considerations got into the Constitution is difficult to discern, for the Court has never considered any of these factors in determining the scope of the Eighth Amendment. 6
The essence of the majority's argument is that schoolchildren do not need Eighth Amendment protection because corporal punishment is less subject to abuse in the public schools than it is in the prison system.  7 However, it cannot be reasonably suggested that just because cruel and unusual punishments may occur less frequently under public scrutiny, they will not occur at all. The mere fact that a public flogging or a public execution would be available for all to see would not render the punishment constitutional if it were otherwise impermissible.  Similarly, the majority would not suggest that a prisoner who is placed in a minimum-security prison and permitted to go home to his family on the weekends should be any less entitled to Eighth Amendment protections than his counterpart in a maximum-security prison. In short, if a punishment is so barbaric and inhumane that it goes beyond the tolerance of a civilized society, its openness to public scrutiny should have nothing to do with its constitutional validity.
Nor is it an adequate answer that schoolchildren may have other state and constitutional remedies available to them.  Even assuming that the remedies available to public school students are adequate under Florida law, 8 the availability of state remedies has never been determinative of the coverage or of the protections afforded by the Eighth Amendment. The reason is obvious.  The fact that a person may have a state-law cause of action against a public official who tortures him with a thumbscrew for the commission of an antisocial act has nothing to do with the fact that such official conduct is cruel and unusual punishment prohibited by the Eighth Amendment. Indeed, the majority's view was implicitly rejected this Term in Estelle v. Gamble, 429 U.S. 97 (1976), when the Court held that failure to provide for the medical needs of prisoners could constitute cruel and unusual punishment even though a medical malpractice remedy in tort was available to prisoners under state law.  Id., at 107 n. 15.
D
By holding that the Eighth Amendment protects only criminals, the majority adopts the view that one is entitled to the protections afforded by the Eighth Amendment only if he is punished for acts that are sufficiently opprobrious for society to make them "criminal." This is a curious holding in view of the fact that the more culpable the offender the more likely it is that the punishment will not be disproportionate to the offense, and consequently, the less likely it is that the punishment will be cruel and unusual.  9 Conversely, a public school student who is spanked for a mere breach of discipline may sometimes have a strong argument that the punishment does not fit the offense, depending upon the severity of the beating, and therefore that it is cruel and unusual.  Yet the majority would afford the student no protection no matter how inhumane and barbaric the punishment inflicted on him might be.
The issue presented in this phase of the case is limited to whether corporal punishment in public schools can ever be prohibited by the Eighth Amendment. I am therefore not suggesting that spanking in the public schools is in every instance prohibited by the Eighth Amendment. My own view is that it is not.  I only take issue with the extreme view of the majority that corporal punishment in public schools, no matter how barbaric, inhumane, or severe, is never limited by the Eighth Amendment. Where corporal punishment becomes so severe as to be unacceptable in a civilized society, I can see no reason that it should become any more acceptable just because it is inflicted on children in the public schools.
II
The majority concedes that corporal punishment in the public schools implicates an interest protected by the Due Process Clause - the liberty interest of the student to be free from "bodily restraint and punishment" involving "appreciable physical pain" inflicted by persons acting under color of state law.  Ante, at 674.  The question remaining, as the majority recognizes, is what process is due.
The reason that the Constitution requires a State to provide "due process of law" when it punishes an individual for misconduct is to protect the individual from erroneous or mistaken punishment that the State would not have inflicted had it found the facts in a more reliable way.  See, e.g., Mathews v. Eldridge, 424 U.S. 319, 335, 344 (1976). In Goss v. Lopez, 419 U.S. 565 (1975), the Court applied this principle to the school disciplinary process, holding that a student must be given an informal opportunity to be heard before he is finally suspended from public school. S
"Disciplinarians, although proceeding in utmost good faith, frequently act on the reports and advice of others; and the controlling facts and the nature of the conduct under challenge are often disputed.  The risk of error is not at all trivial, and it should be guarded against if that may be done without prohibitive cost or interference with the educational process." Id., at 580. (Emphasis added.)I
To guard against this risk of punishing an innocent child, the Due Process Clause requires, not an "elaborate hearing" before a neutral party, but simply "an informal give-and-take between student and disciplinarian"  which gives the student "an opportunity to explain his version of the facts." Id., at 580, 582, 584.
The Court now holds that these "rudimentary precautions against unfair or mistaken findings of misconduct," id., at 581, are not required if the student is punished with "appreciable physical pain" rather than with a suspension, even though both punishments deprive the student of a constitutionally protected interest.  Although the respondent school authorities provide absolutely no process to the student before the punishment is finally inflicted, the majority concludes that the student is nonetheless given due process because he can later sue the teacher and recover damages if the punishment was "excessive."
This tort action is utterly inadequate to protect against erroneous infliction of punishment for two reasons.  10 First, under Florida law, a student punished for an act he did not commit cannot recover damages from a teacher "proceeding   in utmost good faith... on the reports and advice of others," supra, at 692; the student has no remedy at all for punishment imposed on the basis of mistaken facts, at least as long as the punishment was reasonable from the point of view of the disciplinarian, uninformed by any prior hearing.  11 The "   traditional    common-law remedies" on which the majority relies, ante, at 672, thus do nothing to protect the student from the danger that concerned the Court in Goss - the risk of reasonable, good-faith mistake in the school disciplinary process.
Second, and more important, even if the student could sue for good-faith error in the infliction of punishment, the lawsuit occurs after the punishment has been finally imposed.  The infliction of physical pain is final and irreparable; it cannot be undone in a subsequent proceeding.  There is every reason to require, as the Court did in Goss, a few minutes of "informal give-and-take between student and disciplinarian" as a "meaningful hedge" against the erroneous infliction of irreparable injury.  419 U.S., at 583-584. 12
The majority's conclusion that a damages remedy for excessive corporal punishment affords adequate process rests on the novel theory that the State may punish an individual without giving him any opportunity to present his side of the story, as long as he can later recover damages from a state official if he is innocent.  The logic of this theory would permit a State that punished speeding with a one-day jail sentence to make a driver serve his sentence first without a trial and then sue to recover damages for wrongful imprisonment.  13 Similarly, the State could finally take away a prisoner's good-time credits for alleged disciplinary infractions and require him to bring a damage suit after he was eventually released.  There is no authority for this theory, nor does the majority purport to find any, 14 in the procedural due process   decisions of this Court.  Those cases have "consistently held that some kind of hearing is required at some time before a person is finally deprived of his property interests...  a person's liberty is equally protected...." Wolff v. McDonnell, 418 U.S. 539, 557-558 (1974). (Emphasis added.  )
The majority attempts to support its novel theory by drawing an analogy to warrantless arrests on probable cause, which the Court has held reasonable under the Fourth Amendment.  United States v. Watson, 423 U.S. 411 (1976). This analogy fails for two reasons.  First, the particular requirements of the Fourth Amendment, rooted in the "ancient common-law rule" regulating police practices, id., at 418, must be understood in the context of the criminal justice system for which that Amendment was explicitly tailored.  Thus in Gerstein v. Pugh, 420 U.S. 103 (1975), the Court, speaking through MR. JUSTICE POWELL, rejected the argument that procedural protections required in Goss   and other due process cases should be afforded to a criminal suspect arrested without a warrant.  S
"The Fourth Amendment was tailored explicitly for the criminal justice system, and its balance between individual and public interests always has been thought to define the 'process that is due' for seizures of person or property in criminal cases, including the detention of suspects pending trial....  Moreover, the Fourth Amendment probable cause determination is in fact only the first stage of an elaborate system, unique in jurisprudence, designed to safeguard the rights of those accused of criminal conduct.  The relatively simple civil procedures (e.g., prior interview with school principal before suspension) presented in the  cases cited in the concurring opinion are inapposite and irrelevant in the wholly different context of the criminal justice system." Id., at 125 n. 27. (Emphasis in last sentence added.)
While a case dealing with warrantless arrests is perhaps not altogether "inapposite and irrelevant in the wholly different context" of the school disciplinary process, such a case is far weaker authority than procedural due process cases such as Goss v. Lopez, 419 U.S. 565 (1975), that deal with deprivations of liberty outside the criminal context.
Second, contrary to the majority's suggestion, ante, at 680 n. 48, the reason that the Court has upheld warrantless arrests on probable cause is not because the police officer's assessment of the facts "may be subjected to subsequent judicial scrutiny in a civil action against the law enforcement officer or in a suppression hearing...." The reason that the Court has upheld arrests without warrants is that they are the "first stage of an elaborate system" of procedural protections, Gerstein v. Pugh, supra, at 125 n. 27, and that the State is not free to continue the deprivation beyond this first stage without procedures. The Constitution requires the State to provide "a fair and reliable determination of probable cause" by a judicial officer prior to the imposition of "any significant pretrial restraint of liberty" other than "a brief period of detention to take the administrative steps incident to  arrest." Id., at 114, 125. (Footnote omitted; emphasis added.) This "practical compromise" is made necessary because "requiring a magistrate's review of the factual justification prior to any arrest... would constitute an intolerable handicap for legitimate law enforcement," id., at 113; but it is the probable-cause determination prior to any significant period of pretrial incarceration, rather than a damages action or suppression hearing, that affords the suspect due process.
There is, in short, no basis in logic or authority for the majority's suggestion that an action to recover damages for excessive corporal punishment "afford substantially greater protection to the child than the informal conference mandated by Goss." 15 The majority purports to follow the settled principle that what process is due depends on "'the risk of an erroneous deprivation of  interest... and the probable value, if any, of additional or substitute procedural safeguards'"; 16 it recognizes, as did Goss, the risk of error in the school disciplinary process 17 and concedes that "the child has a strong interest in procedural safeguards that minimize the risk of wrongful punishment...," ante, at 676; but it somehow concludes that this risk is adequately reduced by a damages remedy that never has been recognized by a Florida court, that leaves unprotected the innocent student punished by mistake, and that allows the State to punish first and hear the student's version of events later.  I cannot agree.
The majority emphasizes, as did the dissenters in Goss, that even the "rudimentary precautions" required by that decision would impose some burden on the school disciplinary process.  But those costs are no greater if the student is paddled rather than suspended; the risk of error in the punishment is no smaller; and the fear of "a significant intrusion" into the disciplinary process, ante,  at 682 (cf.  Goss, supra, at 585 (POWELL, J., dissenting)), is just as exaggerated.  The disciplinarian need only take a few minutes to give the student "notice of the charges against him and, if he denies them, an explanation of the evidence the authorities have and an opportunity to present his side of the story." 419 U.S., at 581. In this context the Constitution requires, "if anything, less than a fair-minded school principal would impose upon himself" in order to avoid injustice.  18 Id., at 583.
I would reverse the judgment below.
<dissent author="STEVENS" text="TRUE">
MR. JUSTICE STEVENS, dissenting.
MR. JUSTICE WHITE's analysis of the Eighth Amendment issue is, I believe, unanswerable.  I am also persuaded that his analysis of the procedural due process issue is correct.  Notwithstanding my disagreement with the Court's holding on the latter question, my respect for MR. JUSTICE POWELL'S reasoning in Part IV-B of his opinion for the Court prompts these comments.
The constitutional prohibition of state deprivations of life, liberty, or property without due process of law does not, by its express language, require that a hearing be provided before any deprivation may occur.  To be sure, the timing of the process may be a critical element in determining its adequacy - that is, in deciding what process is due in a particular context.  Generally, adequate notice and a fair opportunity to be heard in advance of any deprivation of a constitutionally protected interest are essential.  The Court has recognized, however, that the wording of the command that there shall be no deprivation "without" due process of law is consistent with the conclusion that a postdeprivation remedy is sometimes constitutionally sufficient.  1
When only an invasion of a property interest is involved, there is a greater likelihood that a damages award will make a person completely whole than when an invasion of the individual's interest in freedom from bodily restraint and punishment has occurred.  In the property context, therefore, frequently a postdeprivation state remedy may be all the process that the Fourteenth Amendment requires.  It may also be true - although I do not express an opinion on the point - that an adequate state remedy for defamation may satisfy the due process requirement when a State has impaired an individual's interest in his reputation.  On that hypothesis, the Court's analysis today gives rise to the thought that Paul v. Davis, 424 U.S. 693, may have been correctly decided on an incorrect rationale.  Perhaps the Court will one day agree with MR. JUSTICE BRENNAN'S appraisal of the importance of the constitutional interest at stake in id., at 720-723, 734 (dissenting opinion), and nevertheless conclude that an adequate state remedy may prevent every state-inflicted injury to a person's reputation from violating 42 U.S.C.  § 1983. 2
