OPINION
MR. JUSTICE STEVENS delivered the opinion of the Court.
Respondent was employed by United Air Lines as a flight attendant from November 1966 to February 1968.  She was rehired in February 1972.  Assuming, as she alleges, that her separation from employment in 1968 violated Title VII of the Civil Rights Act of 1964, 1 the question now presented is whether the employer is committing a second violation of Title VII by refusing to credit her with seniority for any period prior to February 1972.
Respondent filed charges with the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission in February 1973, alleging that United discriminated and continues to discriminate against her because she is a female. After receiving a letter granting her the right to sue, she commenced this action in the United States District Court for the Northern District of Illinois.  Because the District Court dismissed her complaint,  the facts which she has alleged are taken as true.  They may be simply stated.
During respondent's initial period of employment, United maintained a policy of refusing to allow its female flight attendants to be married. 2 When she married in 1968, she was therefore forced to resign. Although it was subsequently decided that such a resignation violated Title VII, Sprogis v. United Air Lines, 444 F. 2d 1194 (CA7 1971), cert. denied, 404 U.S. 991, respondent was not a party to that case and did not initiate any proceedings of her own in 1968 by filing a charge with the EEOC within 90 days of her separation.  3 A claim based on that discriminatory act is therefore barred.  4
In November 1968, United entered into a new collective-bargaining agreement which ended the pre-existing "no marriage" rule and provided for the reinstatement of certain flight attendants who had been terminated pursuant to that rule.  Respondent was not covered by that agreement.  On several occasions she unsuccessfully sought reinstatement; on February 16, 1972, she was hired as a new employee.  Although her personnel file carried the same number as it did in 1968, for seniority purposes she has been treated as though she had no prior service with United.  5 She has not alleged that any other rehired employees were given credit for prior service with United, or that United's administration of the seniority system has violated the collective-bargaining agreement covering her employment.  6
Informal requests to credit her with pre-1972 seniority having been denied, respondent commenced this action.  7 The District Court dismissed the complaint, holding that the failure to file a charge within 90 days of her separation in 1968 caused respondent's claim to be time barred, and foreclosed any relief under Title VII.  8
A divided panel of the Court of Appeals initially affirmed; then, after our decision in Franks v. Bowman Transportation Co., 424 U.S. 747, the panel granted respondent's petition for rehearing and unanimously reversed.  534 F. 2d 1247 (CA7 1976). We granted certiorari, 429 U.S. 917, and now hold that the complaint was properly dismissed.
Respondent recognizes that it is now too late to obtain relief based on an unlawful employment practice which occurred in   1968.  She contends, however, that United is guilty of a present, continuing violation of Title VII and therefore that her claim is timely.  9 She advances two reasons for holding that United's seniority system illegally discriminates against her: First, she is treated less favorably than males who were hired after her termination in 1968 and prior to her re-employment in 1972; second, the seniority system gives present effect to the past illegal act and therefore perpetuates the consequences of forbidden discrimination.  Neither argument persuades us that United is presently violating the statute.
It is true that some male employees with less total service than respondent have more seniority than she.  But this disparity is not a consequence of their sex, or of her sex. For females hired between 1968 and 1972 also acquired the same preference over respondent as males hired during that period.  Moreover, both male and female employees who had service prior to February 1968, who resigned or were terminated for a nondiscriminatory reason (or for an unchallenged discriminatory reason), and who were later re-employed, also were treated as new employees receiving no seniority credit for their prior service. Nothing alleged in the complaint indicates that United's seniority system treats existing female employees differently from existing male employees, or that the failure to credit prior service differentiates in any way between prior service by males and prior service by females. Respondent has failed to allege that United's seniority system differentiates between similarly situated males and females on the basis of sex.
Respondent is correct in pointing out that the seniority system gives present effect to a past act of discrimination.  But United was entitled to treat that past act as lawful after respondent failed to file a charge of discrimination within the 90 days then allowed by § 706(d). A discriminatory act which is not made the basis for a timely charge is the legal equivalent of a discriminatory act which occurred before the statute was passed. It may constitute relevant background evidence in a proceeding in which the status of a current practice is at issue, but separately considered, it is merely an unfortunate event in history which has no present legal consequences.
Respondent emphasizes the fact that she has alleged a continuing violation. United's seniority system does indeed have a continuing impact on her pay and fringe benefits.  But the emphasis should not be placed on mere continuity; the critical question is whether any present violation exists.  She has not alleged that the system discriminates against former female employees or that it treats former employees who were discharged for a discriminatory reason any differently from former employees who resigned or were discharged for a nondiscriminatory reason.  In short, the system is neutral in its operation.  10
Our decision in Franks v. Bowman Transportation Co., supra, does not control this case.  In Franks we held that retroactive seniority was an appropriate remedy to be awarded under § 706(g) of Title VII, 42 U.S.C.  § 2000e-5(g) (1970   ed., Supp. V), after an illegal discriminatory act or practice had been proved, 424 U.S., at 762-768. When that case reached this Court, the issues relating to the timeliness of the charge 11 and the violation of Title VII 12 had already been decided; we dealt only with a question of remedy.  In contrast, in the case now before us we do not reach any remedy issue because respondent did not file a timely charge based on her 1968 separation and she has not alleged facts establishing a violation since she was rehired in 1972.  13
The difference between a remedy issue and a violation issue is highlighted by the analysis of § 703(h) of Title VII in Franks.14 As we held in that case, by its terms that section does not bar the award of retroactive seniority after a violation has been proved.  Rather, § 703(h) "delineates which employment practices are illegal and thereby prohibited and which are not," 424 U.S., at 758.
That section expressly provides that it shall not be an unlawful employment practice to apply different terms of employment   pursuant to a bona fide seniority system, provided that any disparity is not the result of intentional discrimination.  Since respondent does not attack the bona fides of United's seniority system, and since she makes no charge that the system is intentionally designed to discriminate because of race, color, religion, sex, or national origin, § 703(h) provides an additional ground for rejecting her claim.
The Court of Appeals read § 703(h) as intended to bar an attack on a seniority system based on the consequences of discriminatory acts which occurred prior to the effective date of Title VII in 1965, 15 but having no application to such attacks based on acts occurring after 1965.  This reading of § 703(h) is too narrow. The statute does not foreclose attacks on the current operation of seniority systems which are subject to challenge as discriminatory. But such a challenge to a neutral system may not be predicated on the mere fact that a past event which has no present legal significance has affected the calculation of seniority credit, even if the past event might at one time have justified a valid claim against the employer.  A contrary view would substitute a claim for seniority credit for almost every claim which is barred by limitations.  Such a result would contravene the mandate of § 703(h).
The judgment of the Court of Appeals is reversed.
It is so ordered.
<dissent author="MARSHALL_T" text="TRUE">
DISSENT BY: MARSHALL
MR. JUSTICE MARSHALL, with whom MR. JUSTICE BRENNAN joins, dissenting.
But for her sex, respondent Carolyn Evans presently would enjoy all of the seniority rights that she seeks through this litigation.  Petitioner United Air Lines has denied her those rights pursuant to a policy that perpetuates past discrimination by awarding the choicest jobs to those possessing a   credential married women were unlawfully prevented from acquiring: continuous tenure with United.  While the complaint respondent filed in the District Court was perhaps inartfully drawn, 1 it adequately draws into question this policy of United's.
For the reasons stated in the Court's opinion and in my separate opinion in Teamsters v. United States, ante, at 378, I think it indisputable that, absent § 703(h), the seniority system at issue here would constitute an "unlawful employment practice" under Title VII, 42 U.S.C.  § 2000e-2(a)(2) (1970 ed., Supp. V).  And for the reasons developed at length in my separate opinion in Teamsters, ante, at 381-394, I believe § 703(h) does not immunize seniority systems that perpetuate post-Act discrimination.
The only remaining question is whether Ms. Evans' complaint is barred by the applicable statute of limitations, 42 U.S.C.  § 2000e-5(e) (1970 ed., Supp. V). Her cause of action accrued, if at all, at the time her seniority was recomputed after she was rehired. Although she apparently failed to file a charge with the EEOC within 180 days after her seniority was determined, Title VII recognizes that certain violations, once commenced, are continuing in nature.  In these instances, discriminatees can file charges at any time up to 180 days after the violation ceases.  (They can, however, receive backpay only for the two years preceding the filing of charges with the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission.  42 U.S.C.  § 2000e-5(g) (1970 ed., Supp. V)).  In   the instant case, the violation - treating respondent as a new employee even though she was wrongfully forced to resign - is continuing to this day. Respondent's charge therefore was not time barred, and the Court of Appeals judgment reinstating her complaint should be affirmed.  2
