OPINION
MR. JUSTICE MARSHALL delivered the opinion of the Court.
In 1972 Congress amended the Longshoremen's and Harbor Workers'   Compensation Act (LHWCA or Act), 33 U.S.C.  § 901 et seq., in substantial part to "extend  coverage to protect additional workers." S. Rep. No. 92-1125, p. 1 (1972) (hereinafter S. Rep.).  1 In these consolidated cases we must determine whether respondents Caputo and Blundo, injured while working on the New York City waterfront, are entitled to compensation.  To answer that question we must determine the reach of the 1972 Amendments.
The sections of the Act relevant to these cases are the ones providing "coverage" and defining "employee." They provide, with italics to indicate the material added in 1972: S
"Compensation shall be payable... in respect of disability or death of an employee but only if the disability or death results  from an injury occurring upon the navigable waters of the United States (including any adjoining pier, wharf, dry dock, terminal, building way, marine railway, or other adjoining area customarily used by an employer in loading, unloading, repairing, or building a vessel)...." 33 U.S.C.  § 903(a) (1970 ed., Supp. V). 
"The term 'employee' means any person engaged in martime employment, including any longshoreman or other person engaged in longshoring operations, and any harborworker including a ship repairman, shipbuilder, and shipbreaker, but such term does not include a master or member of a crew of any vessel, or any person engaged by the master to load or unload or repair any small vessel under eighteen tons net." 33 U.S.C.  § 902(3) (1970 ed., Supp. V).I
Specifically at issue here is whether respondents Caputo and Blundo were "employees" within the meaning of the Act and whether the injuries they sustained occurred on the "navigable waters of the United States."
I
At the time of his injury respondent Carmelo Blundo had been employed for five years as a "checker" by petitioner International Terminal Operating Co. (ITO) at its facility in Brooklyn, N. Y., known as the 21st  Street Pier. As a checker he was responsible for checking and recording cargo as it was loaded onto or unloaded from vessels, barges, or containers. 2 Blundo was   assigned his tasks at the beginning of each day and until he arrived at the terminal he did not know whether he would be working on a ship or on shore.  He was reassigned during the day if he completed the task to which he was assigned initially.  App. 63-69, 112.
On January 8, 1974, ITO assigned Blundo to check cargo being "stripped" or removed from a container on the 19th Street side of the pier. The container Blundo was checking had been taken off a vessel at another pier facility outside of Brooklyn and brought overland unopened by an independent trucking company to the 21st Street Pier. It was Blundo's job to break the seal that had been placed on the container in a foreign port and show it to United States Customs Agents. After the seal was broken, Blundo was to check the contents of the container against a manifest sheet describing the cargo, the consignees, and the ship on, and port from which, the cargo had been transported.  He was to mark each item of cargo with an identifying number.  After the checking, the cargo was to be placed on pallets, sorted according to consignees, and put in a bonded warehouse pending customs inspection.  Blundo was injured as he was marking the cargo stripped from the container, when he slipped on some ice on the pier. Id., at 69-74, 86-90.
Blundo sought compensation under the LHWCA.The Administrative Law Judge concluded that Blundo satisfied the coverage requirements of the Act and the Benefits Review Board (BRB) affirmed.  3
Respondent Ralph Caputo was a member of a regular longshoring "gang" that worked for Pittston Stevedoring Co.  4 When his gang was not needed, Caputo went to the waterfront hiring hall, where he was hired by the day by other stevedoring companies or terminal operators with work available. He had been hired on some occasions by Northeast Stevedoring Co. to   work as a member of a stevedore gang on ships at the 39th Street Pier in Brooklyn; on other occasions he had been hired by petitioner Northeast Marine Terminal Co., Inc. (Northeast), for work in its terminal operations at the same location.  App. 8-10, 14-16.
On April 16, 1973, Caputo was hired by Northeast to work as a "terminal ." App. to Pet. for Cert. in No. 76-444, p. 48a; App. 8, 14.  A terminal laborer may be assigned to load and unload containers, lighters, 5 barges, and trucks. 6 Id., at 8; Brief for Petitioners in No. 76-444, p. 4. When he arrived at the terminal, Caputo was assigned, along with a checker and forklift driver, to help consignees' truckmen load their trucks with cargo that had been discharged from ships at Northeast's terminal. 7 Caputo was injured while rolling a dolly loaded with cheese into a consignee's truck. App. 27-40.
The Administrative Law Judge found that Caputo satisfied the requirements of the Act and awarded him compensation.  The BRB affirmed.  8
The employers in both cases filed petitions to review the decisions and the Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit consolidated the cases.  After thorough consideration of the language, history, and purposes of the 1972 Amendments, the court held, one judge dissenting, that the injuries of both respondents were compensable under the LHWCA.  9 In view of the conflict over the coverage afforded by the 1972 Amendments, 10 we granted certiorari to consider both cases.  11 429 U.S. 998 (1976). We affirm.
II
Congress enacted the LHWCA in 1927, 44 Stat. 1424, after this Court had thwarted the efforts of the States and of Congress to provide compensation for maritime workers injured on navigable waters through state compensation programs. In 1917, the Court, in Southern Pacific Co. v. Jensen, 244 U.S. 205,   held that the States were without power to extend a workmen's compensation remedy to longshoremen injured on the gangplank between a ship and a pier. The decision left longshoremen injured on the seaward side of a pier without a compensation remedy while longshoremen injured on the pier were protected by state compensation Acts.  State Industrial Comm'n v. Nordenholt Corp., 259 U.S. 263 (1922). Dissatisfied with the gap in coverage thus created, and recognizing that the amphibious nature of longshoremen's work made it desirable to have "one law to cover their whole employment, whether directly part of the process of loading or unloading a ship or not," Congress sought to authorize States to apply their compensation statutes to injuries seaward of the Jensen line.  12 Its attempts to allow such uniform state systems, however, were struck down as unlawful delegations of congressional power.  Washington v. W. C. Dawson & Co., 264 U.S. 219 (1924); Knickerbocker Ice Co. v. Stewart, 253 U.S. 149 (1920). Finally, convinced that the only way to provide workmen's compensation for longshoremen and harborworkers injured on navigable waters was to enact a federal system, Congress, in 1927, passed the LHWCA.
The Act was, in a sense, a typical workmen's compensation system, compensating an employee for injuries "arising out of and in the course of employment." 13 But it was designed simply to be a gapfiller -- to fill the void created by the inability of the States to remedy injuries on navigable waters. Thus, it provided coverage only for injuries occurring "upon the navigable waters of the United States" and permitted compensation awards only "if recovery... through workmen's compensation proceedings  not validly be provided by state law." 14
Congress' initial apprehension of the difficulties inherent in the existence of two compensation systems for injuries sustained by amphibious workers proved to be well founded.  The courts spent the next 45 years trying to ascertain the respective spheres of coverage of the state and federal systems.  As two commentators described it, "the relationship between  and the otherwise applicable State Compensation Act  shrouded in impenetrable confusion." G. Gilmore & C. Black, Law of Admiralty 409 (2d ed. 1975) (Gilmore).  It is unnecessary to examine in detail the Court's efforts to dispel the confusion.  15 Suffice it to say that while the Court permitted recovery under state remedies in particular situations seaward of the Jensen line, see, e.g., Davis v. Washington Labor Dept., 317 U.S. 249 (1942), the Court made it clear that federal coverage stopped at the water's edge.  Nacirema Operating Co. v. Johnson, 396 U.S. 212 (1969).
In Nacirema Operating Co., supra, the Court held that the Act did not cover longshoremen killed or injured on a pier while attaching cargo to ships' cranes for loading onto the ships, even though coverage might have existed had the men been hurled into the water by the accident, Marine Stevedoring Corp. v. Oosting, 238 F.Supp. 78 (ED Va. 1965), aff'd, 398 F.2d 900 (CA4 1968) (en banc), 16 or been injured on the deck of the ship while performing part of the same operation, Calbeck v. Travelers Ins. Co., 370 U.S. 114 (1962). The dissent protested the incongruity and unfairness of having coverage determined by "where the body falls" and argued that the Act was "status oriented, reaching all injuries sustained by longshoremen in the course of their employment." 396 U.S. at 224 (Douglas, J., dissenting).  The majority, however, did not agree.  S
"There is much to be said for uniform treatment of longshoremen injured while loading or unloading a ship. But even construing the  to amend the Longshoremen's Act would not effect this result, since longshoremen injured on a pier by pier-based equipment would still remain outside the Act.  And construing the Longshoremen's Act to coincide with the limits of admiralty jurisdiction - whatever they may be and however they may change -- simply replaces one line with another whose uncertain contours can only perpetuate on the landward side of the Jensen line, the same confusion that previously existed on the seaward side.  While we have no doubt that Congress had the power to choose either of these paths in defining the coverage of its compensation remedy, the plain fact is that it chose instead the line in Jensen separating water from land at the edge of the pier. The invitation to move that line landward must be addressed to Congress, not to this Court." Id., at 223-224." 17 I
In 1972, Congress moved the line.
The 1972 Amendments were the first significant effort to reform the 1927 Act and the judicial gloss that had been attached to it.  The main concern of the 1972 Amendments was not with the scope of coverage but with accommodating the desires of three interested groups: (1) shipowners who were discontented with the decisions allowing many maritime workers to use the doctrine of "seaworthiness" to recover full damages from shipowners regardless of fault; (2) employers of the longshoremen who, under another judicially created doctrine, could be required to indemnify shipowners and thereby lose the benefit of the intended exclusivity of the compensation remedy; and (3) workers who wanted to improve the benefit schedule deemed inadequate by all parties.  18 Congress sought to meet these desires by "specifically eliminating suits against vessels brought for injuries to longshoremen under the doctrine of seaworthiness and outlawing indemnification actions and 'hold harmless' or indemnity agreements to allow suits against vessels or other third parties for negligence benefits to a level commensurate with present day salaries and with the  needs of injured workers whose sole support will be payments under the Act." S. Rep. 5.  19
In increasing the benefits, however, Congress recognized that the disparity between the federal compensation rates and the significantly lower state rates would exacerbate the harshness of the already unpopular Jensen line.  It also realized that modern technology had moved much of the longshoreman's work onto the land so that if coverage were not extended, there would be many workers who would be relegated to what Congress deemed clearly inadequate state compensation systems.  As both the Senate and House Reports stated: S
"overage of the present Act stops at the water's edge; injuries occurring on land are covered by State Workmen's Compensation laws.  The result is a disparity in benefits payable for death or disability for the same type of injury depending on which side of the water's edge and in which State the accident occurs.
"To make matters worse, most State Workmen's Compensation laws provide benefits which are inadequate....
. . . . .
"It is apparent that if the Federal benefit structure embodied in  Committee bill is enacted, there would be a substantial disparity in benefits payable to a permanently disabled longshoreman, depending on which side of the water's edge the accident occurred, if State laws are permitted to continue to apply to injuries occurring on land.  It is also to be noted that with the advent of modern cargo-handling techniques, such as containerization and the use of LASH-type vessels, more of the longshoreman's work is performed on land than heretofore." 20I
To remedy these problems, Congress extended the coverage shoreward. It broadened the definition of "navigable waters of the United States" to include "any adjoining pier, wharf, dry dock, terminal, building way, marine railway, or other adjoining area customarily used by an employer in loading, unloading, repairing, or building a vessel." 21 At the same time, Congress amended the definition of the persons covered by the Act.  Previously, so long as a work-related injury occurred on navigable waters and the injured worker was not a member of a narrowly defined class, 22 the worker would be eligible for federal compensation provided that his or her employer had at least one employee engaged in maritime employment.  It was not necessary that the injured employee be so employed.  Pennsylvania R. Co. v. O'Rourke, 344 U.S. 334, 340-342 (1953). But with the definition of "navigable waters" expanded by the 1972 Amendments to include such a large geographical area, it became necessary to describe affirmatively the class of workers Congress desired to compensate.  It therefore added the requirement that the injured worker be "engaged in maritime employment," which it defined to include "any longshoreman or other person engaged in longshoring operations, and any harborworker including a ship repairman, shipbuilder, and shipbreaker, but... not... a master or member of a crew of any vessel, or any person engaged by the master to load or unload or repair any small vessel under eighteen tons net." 33 U.S.C.  § 902(3) (1970 ed., Supp. V).  23
The 1972 Amendments thus changed what had been essentially   only a "situs" test of eligibility for compensation to one looking to both the "situs" of the injury and the "status" of the injured.  We must now determine whether respondents Caputo and Blundo satisfied these requirements.
III
We turn first to the question whether Caputo and Blundo satisfied the "status" test -- that is, whether they were "engaged in maritime employment" and therefore "employees" at the time of their injuries.  24 The question is made difficult by the failure of Congress to define the relevant terms -- "maritime employment," "longshoremen," "longshoring operations" 25 -- in either the text of the Act or its legislative history.  26
The closest Congress came to defining the key terms is the "typical example" of shoreward coverage provided in the Committee Reports.  27   The example clearly indicates an intent to cover those workers involved in the essential elements of unloading a vessel -- taking cargo out of the hold, moving it away from the ship's side, and carrying it immediately to a storage or holding area.  The example also makes it clear that persons who are on the situs but are not engaged in the overall process of loading and unloading vessels are not covered.  Thus, employees such as truckdrivers, whose responsibility on the waterfront is essentially to pick up or deliver cargo unloaded from or destined for maritime transportation are not covered.  Also excluded are employees who perform purely clerical tasks and are not engaged in the handling of cargo. But while the example is useful for identifying the outer bounds of who is clearly excluded and who is clearly included, it does not speak to all situations.  28 In particular, it is silent on the question of coverage for those people, such as Caputo and Blundo, who are injured while on the situs, see Part IV, infra, and engaged in the handling of cargo as it moves between sea and land transportation after its immediate unloading. 29
Nevertheless, we are not without guidance in resolving that question.  The language of the 1972 Amendments is broad and suggests that we should take an expansive view of the extended coverage. Indeed, such a construction is appropriate for this remedial legislation. The Act "must be liberally construed in conformance with its purpose, and in a way which avoids harsh and incongruous results." Voris v. Eikel, 346 U.S. 328, 333 (1953). Consideration of the purposes behind the broadened coverage reveals a   clear intent to reach persons such as Blundo and Caputo.  30
One of the primary motivations for Congress' decision to extend the coverage shoreward was the recognition that "the advent of modern cargo-handling techniques" had moved much of the longshoreman's work off the vessel and onto land.  S. Rep. 13; H.R. Rep. 10. Noted specifically was the impact of containerization.  Unlike traditional break-bulk cargo handling, in which each item of cargo must be handled   separately and stored individually in the hold of the ship as it waits in port, containerization permits the time-consuming work of stowage and unstowage to be performed on land in the absence of the vessel. The use of containerized ships has reduced the costly time the vessel must be in port and the amount of manpower required to get the cargo onto the vessel. 31 In effect, the operation of loading and unloading has been moved shoreward; the container is a modern substitute for the hold of the vessel. As Judge Friendly observed below,   "tripping a container... is the functional equivalent of sorting cargo discharged from a ship; stuffing a container is part of the loading of the ship even though it is performed on shore and not in the ship's cargo holds." Pittston Stevedoring Corp. v. Dellaventura, 544 F.2d 35, 53 (CA2 1976). Congress' intent to adapt the LHWCA to modern cargohandling techniques clearly indicates that these tasks, heretofore done on board ship, are included in the category of "longshoring operations." 32
It is therefore apparent that respondent Blundo was a statutory "employee" when he slipped on the ice.  His job was to check and mark items of cargo as they were unloaded from a container. This task is clearly an integral part of the unloading process as altered by the advent of containerization and was intended to be reached by the Amendments.Indeed, the Committee Reports explicitly state: "heckers, for example, who are directly involved in the loading or unloading functions are covered by the new amendment." S. Rep. 13; H.R. Rep. 11.  We thus have no doubt that Blundo satisfied the status test.  33
The congressional desire to accommodate the Act to modern technological changes is not relevant to Caputo's case, since he was injured in the old-fashioned process of putting goods already unloaded from a ship or container into a delivery truck. Another dominant theme underlying the 1972 Amendments, however, assists us in analyzing Caputo's status.  Congress wanted a "uniform compensation system to apply to employees who would otherwise be covered by this Act for part of their activity." S. Rep. 13; H.R. Rep. 10-11. It wanted a system that did not depend on the "fortuitous circumstance of whether the injury  occurred on land or over water." S. Rep. 13; H.R. Rep. 10.  It therefore extended the situs to encompass the waterfront areas where the overall loading and unloading process occurs.  It is the view of the respondent Director of the OWCP that a uniform system must reach "all physical cargo handling activity anywhere within an area meeting the situs ." Brief for Federal Respondent 20. "aritime employment," in his view, " all physical tasks performed on the waterfront, and particularly those tasks necessary to transfer cargo between land and water transportation." Id., at 25.  Under this theory, it is clear that the Act would cover someone who, like Caputo, was engaged in the final steps of moving cargo from maritime to land transportation: putting it in the consignee's truck.
We need not decide, however, whether the congressional desire for uniformity supports the Director's view 34 and entitles everyone   performing a task such as Caputo's to benefits under the Act.  It is clear, at a minimum, that when someone like Caputo performs such a task, he is to be covered.  The Act focuses primarily on occupations -- longshoreman, harbor worker, ship repairman, shipbuilder, shipbreaker.  Both the text and the history demonstrate a desire to provide continuous coverage throughout their employment to these amphibious workers who, without the 1972 Amendments, would be covered only for part of their activity.  It seems clear, therefore, that when Congress said it wanted to cover "longshoremen," it had in mind persons whose employment is such that they spend at least some of their time in indisputably longshoring operations and who, without the 1972 Amendments, would be covered for only part of their activity.
That Caputo is such a person is readily apparent.  As a member of a regular stevedoring gang, he participated on either the pier or the ship in the stowage and unloading of cargo. On the day of his injury he had been hired by petitioner Northeast as a terminal laborer.  In that capacity, he could have been assigned to any one of a number of tasks necessary to the transfer of cargo between land and maritime transportation, including stuffing and stripping containers, loading and discharging lighters and barges, 35 and loading and unloading trucks. App. 8.  Not only did he have no idea when he set out in the morning which of these tasks he might be assigned, but in fact his assignment could have changed during the day.  Thus, had Caputo avoided injury and completed loading the consignee's truck on the day of the accident, he then could have been assigned to unload a lighter.  Id., at 24.  Since it is clear that he would have been covered while unloading such a vessel, 36 to exclude him from the Act's coverage in the morning but include him in the afternoon would be to revitalize the shifting and fortuitous coverage that Congress intended to eliminate.
Petitioners and the NAS seek to avoid these results by proposing a so-called "point of rest" theory.  37 The term "point of rest" is claimed to be a term of art in the industry that denotes the point where the stevedoring operation ends (or, in the case of loading, begins) and the terminal operation function begins (or ends, in the case of loading).  Brief for Petitioner in No. 76-454, p. 9.  See n. 4, supra. Petitioners contend that the "maritime employment of longshoremen" includes only "the stevedoring activity of the longshore gang (and those directly involved with the gang) which, in the case of unloading, takes cargo out of the hold of the vessel, moves it away from the ship's side, and carries it to its point of rest on the pier or in a terminal shed." Brief for Petitioner in No. 76-454, p. 9.  Since Caputo and Blundo were handling cargo that had already reached its first point of rest, petitioners argue they are not to be covered.
This contention that Congress intended to use the point of rest as the decisive factor in the "status" determination has several fatal weaknesses.  First, the term "point of rest" nowhere appears in the Act or in the legislative history.  It is difficult to understand why, if Congress intended to stop coverage at this point, it never used the term.  The absence of a term that is claimed to be so well known in the industry is both conspicuous and telling.
But it is not simply the term's unexplained absence that undermines petitioners' theory.  More fundamentally, the theory is simply too restrictive, failing to accommodate either the language or the intent of the 1972 Amendments. The operations petitioners would cover clearly are "longshoring operations" and are appropriately covered by the Act.  But petitioners fail to give effect to the obvious desire to cover longshoremen whether or not their particular task at the moment of injury is clearly a "longshoring operation." The theory does not comport with the Act's focus on occupations and its desire for uniformity.  As the First Circuit noted: "The evil of the old Act was that it bifurcated coverage for essentially the same employment.  The point-of-rest approach would seem to result in the same sort of bifurcation, since the same employee engaged in an activity beyond the point of rest would cease to be covered." Stockman v. John T. Clark & Son of Boston, Inc., 539 F.2d 264, 275 (1976). In addition, the theory fails to accommodate the intent to cover those longshoring operations that modern technology had moved onto the land.  Coverage that stops at the point of rest excludes those engaged in loading and unloading the modern functional equivalents of the hold of the ship. As we have indicated, Congress clearly intended to cover such operations.  38
The only support petitioners can find for their theory is the fact that it is consistent with the "typical example" given in the Committee Reports.  See n. 27, supra. But as we have already indicated, supra, at 266-267, the example is equally consistent with a broader view of coverage. Consistency with an illustrative example is clearly not enough to overcome the overwhelming evidence against the theory.39
In view of all this, it is not surprising that the "point of rest" limitation has been rejected by all but one of the Circuits that have considered it 40 and by virtually all the    commentators.  41 We too reject it.  A theory that nowhere appears in the Act, that was never mentioned by Congress during the legislative process, that does not comport with   Congress' intent, and that restricts the coverage of a remedial Act designed to extend coverage is incapable of defeating our conclusion that Blundo and Caputo are "employees."
IV
Having established that respondents Blundo and Caputo satisfied the "status" test for coverage under the Act, we consider now whether their injuries occurred on a covered "situs" -- "the navigable waters of the United States (including any adjoining pier, wharf, dry dock, terminal, building way, marine railway, or other adjoining area customarily used by an employer in loading, unloading, repairing or building a vessel)."
There is no dispute with respect to Caputo.  The truck he was helping to load was parked inside the terminal area.  As petitioner Northeast correctly concedes, this situs "unquestionably met the requirements of § 3(a) of the Act,... because the terminal adjoins navigable waters of the United States and parts of the terminal are used in loading and unloading ships." Brief for Petitioners in No. 76-444, p. 3 n. 1.
Blundo's injury was sustained while he was checking a container being stripped on a pier located within a facility known as the 21st Street Pier. The fenced-in facility was located on the water and ran between 19th and 21st Streets.  It included two "finger-piers." The pier on the 21st Street end was used to berth ships for purposes of  loading and unloading them.  The one on the 19th Street end was used only for stripping and stuffing containers and storage.  See the Administrative Law Judge's decision in Pet. for Cert. in No. 76-454, pp. 52a-53a.  Blundo was working on this latter pier.
Petitioner ITO argues that Blundo was not on a covered situs because the 19th Street Pier was not "customarily used by an employer for loading  unloading... a vessel." The Court of Appeals labeled this argument "halfhearted" and dismissed it in a footnote.  544 F.2d, at 51 n. 19. We agree that the argument does not merit extended discussion.
First, we agree with the court below that it is not at all clear that   the phrase "customarily used" was intended to modify more than the immediately preceding phrase "other areas." We note that the sponsor of the bill in the House, Representative Daniels, described this section as "expand the coverage which was limited to the ship in the present law, to the piers, wharves, and terminals." 118 Cong. Rec. 36381 (1972).  There was little concern with respect to how these facilities were used.  42
Second even if we assume that the phrase should be read to modify the preceding terms, we agree with the BRB and the Court of Appeals that Blundo satisfied the situs test in the same way that Caputo did -- by working in an "adjoining... terminal... customarily used... in loading  unloading." The entire terminal facility adjoined the water and one of its two finger-piers clearly was used for loading and unloading vessels.
Accordingly, we conclude that when Congress sought to expand the situs to avoid anomalies inherent in a system that drew lines at the water's edge, it intended to include an area such as the one at issue here.  Accord, Stockman v. John T. Clark & Son of Boston, Inc., 539 F.2d, at 271-272; I.T.O. Corp. of Baltimore v. BRB, 529 F.2d 1080, 1083-1084 (CA4 1975), modified en banc, 542 F.2d 903 (1976).
Since we find that both Caputo and Blundo satisfied the status and the situs tests, we affirm.
It is so ordered.
