OPINION
MR. JUSTICE STEVENS delivered the opinion of the Court.
An Arizona trial judge granted the prosecutor's motion for a mistrial predicated on improper and prejudicial comment during defense counsel's opening statement. In a subsequent habeas corpus proceeding, a Federal District Court held that the Double Jeopardy Clause protected the defendant from another trial.  The Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit affirmed.  1 The questions presented are whether the record reflects the kind of "necessity" for the mistrial ruling that will avoid a valid plea of double jeopardy, and if so, whether the plea must nevertheless be allowed because the Arizona trial judge did not fully explain the reasons for his mistrial ruling.
I
In 1971 respondent was found guilty of murdering a hotel night clerk.  In 1973, the Superior Court of Pima County, Ariz., ordered a new trial because the prosecutor had withheld exculpatory evidence from the defense.  The Arizona Supreme Court affirmed the new trial order in an unpublished opinion.
Respondent's second trial began in January 1975.  During the voir dire examination of prospective jurors, the prosecutor made reference to the fact that some of the witnesses whose testimony the jurors would hear had testified in proceedings four years earlier.  2 Defense counsel told the prospective jurors "that there was evidence hidden from  at the last trial." In his opening statement, he made this point more forcefully:
"You will hear testimony that notwithstanding the fact that we had a trial in May of 1971 in this matter, that the prosecutor hid those statements and didn't give those to the lawyer for George saying the man was Spanish speaking, didn't give those statements at all, hid them.
"You will hear that that evidence was suppressed and hidden by the prosecutor in that case.  You will hear that that evidence was purposely withheld. You will hear that because of the misconduct of the County Attorney at that time and because he withheld evidence, that the Supreme Court of Arizona granted a new trial in this case." App. 180-181, 184.
After opening statements were completed, the prosecutor moved for a mistrial. In colloquy during argument of the motion, the trial judge expressed the opinion that evidence concerning the reasons for the new trial, and specifically the ruling of the Arizona Supreme Court, was irrelevant to the issue of guilt or innocence and therefore inadmissible.  Defense counsel asked for an opportunity "to find some law" that would support his belief that the Supreme Court opinion would be admissible. 3 After further argument, the judge stated that   he would withhold ruling on the admissibility of the evidence and denied the motion for mistrial. Two witnesses then testified.
The following morning the prosecutor renewed his mistrial motion. Fortified by an evening's research, he argued that there was no theory on which the basis for the new trial ruling could be brought to the attention of the jury, that the prejudice to the jury could not be repaired by any cautionary instructions, and that a mistrial was a "manifest necessity." Defense counsel stated that he still was not prepared with authority supporting his belief that the Supreme Court opinion was admissible. 4 He argued that his comment was invited by the prosecutor's reference to the witnesses' earlier testimony and that any prejudice could be avoided by curative instructions.  During the extended argument, the trial judge expressed his concern about the possibility that an erroneous mistrial ruling would preclude another trial.5
Ultimately the trial judge granted the motion, stating that his ruling was based upon defense counsel's remarks in his opening statement concerning the Arizona Supreme Court opinion.  The trial judge did not expressly find that there was "manifest necessity" for a mistrial; nor did he expressly state that he had considered alternative solutions and concluded that none would be adequate.  The Arizona Supreme Court refused to review the mistrial ruling.  6
Respondent then filed a petition for writ of habeas corpus in the United States District Court for the District of Arizona, alleging that another trial would violate the Double Jeopardy Clause.  After reviewing the transcript of the state proceeding, and hearing the arguments of counsel,  the Federal District Judge noted that the Arizona trial judge had not canvassed on the record the possibility of alternatives to a mistrial and expressed the view that before granting a mistrial motion the judge was required "to find that   manifest necessity exists for the granting of it." 7 Because the record contained no such finding, and because the federal judge was not prepared to   make such a finding himself, he granted the writ.  8 He agreed with the State, however, that defense counsel's opening statement had been improper.
The Ninth Circuit also characterized the opening statement as improper, but affirmed because, absent a finding of manifest necessity or an explicit consideration of alternatives, 9 the court was unwilling to infer that the jury was prevented from arriving at a fair and impartial verdict.  10 In a concurring opinion, two judges noted that, while the question of manifest necessity had been argued, most of the argument on the mistrial motion had concerned the question whether the opening statement was improper.  They concluded that, "absent findings that manifest necessity existed, it...  quite possible that the grant of mistrial was based on the fact that the impropriety of counsel's conduct had been established without reaching the question whether there could, nevertheless, be a fair trial." 546 F. 2d, at 833.
We are persuaded that the Court of Appeals applied an inappropriate standard of review to mistrial rulings of this kind, and attached undue significance to the form of the ruling.  We therefore reverse.
II
A State may not put a defendant in jeopardy twice for the same offense.  Benton v. Maryland, 395 U.S. 784. The constitutional protection against double jeopardy unequivocally prohibits a second trial following an acquittal.  The public interest in the finality of criminal judgments is so strong that an acquitted defendant may not be retried even though "the acquittal was based upon an egregiously erroneous foundation." See Fong Foo v. United States, 369 U.S. 141, 143. If the innocence of the accused has been confirmed by a final judgment, the Constitution conclusively   presumes that a second trial would be unfair.
Because jeopardy attaches before the judgment becomes final,  the constitutional protection also embraces the defendant's "valued right to have his trial completed by a particular tribunal." 11 The reasons why this "valued right" merits constitutional protection are worthy of repetition.  Even if the first trial is not completed, a second prosecution may be grossly unfair. It increases the financial and emotional burden on the accused, 12 prolongs the period in which he is stigmatized by an unresolved accusation of wrongdoing, 13 and may even enhance the risk that an innocent defendant may be convicted.  14 The danger of such unfairness to the defendant exists whenever a trial is aborted before it is completed.15 Consequently,  as a general rule, the prosecutor is entitled to one, and only one, opportunity to require an accused to stand trial.
Unlike the situation in which the trial has ended in an acquittal or conviction,   retrial is not automatically barred when a criminal proceeding is terminated without finally resolving the merits of the charges against the accused.  Because of the variety of circumstances that may make it necessary to discharge a jury before a trial is concluded, and because those circumstances do not invariably create unfairness to the accused, his valued right to have the trial concluded by a particular tribunal is sometimes subordinate to the public interest in affording the prosecutor one full and fair opportunity to present his evidence to an impartial jury.  16 Yet in view of the importance of the right, and the fact that it is frustrated by any mistrial,   the prosecutor must shoulder the burden of justifying the mistrial if he is to avoid the double jeopardy bar.  His burden is a heavy one. The prosecutor must demonstrate "manifest necessity" for any mistrial declared over the objection of the defendant.
The words "manifest necessity" appropriately characterize the magnitude of the prosecutor's burden.  17 For that reason Mr. Justice Story's classic formulation of the test 18 has been quoted over and over again to provide guidance in the decision of a wide variety of cases.  19 Nevertheless, those words do not describe a standard that can be applied mechanically or without attention to the particular problem confronting   the trial judge.  20 Indeed, it is manifest that the key word "necessity" cannot be interpreted literally; instead, contrary to the teaching of Webster, we assume that there are degrees of necessity and we require a "high degree" before concluding that a mistrial is appropriate.  21
The question whether that "high degree" has been reached is answered more easily in some kinds of cases than in others.  At one extreme are cases in which a prosecutor requests a mistrial in order to buttress weaknesses in his evidence.  Although there was a time when English judges served the Stuart monarchs by exercising a power to discharge a jury whenever it appeared that the Crown's evidence would be insufficient to convict, 22 the prohibition against double jeopardy as it evolved in this country was plainly intended to condemn this "abhorrent" practice.  23 As this Court noted in United States v. Dinitz, 424 U.S. 600, 611:
"The Double Jeopardy Clause does protect a defendant against governmental actions intended to provoke mistrial requests and thereby to subject defendants to the substantial burdens imposed by multiple prosecutions.  It bars retrials where 'bad-faith conduct by judge or prosecutor'... threatens the ' of an accused by successive prosecutions or declaration of a mistrial so as to afford the prosecution a more favorable opportunity to convict' the defendant."
Thus,   the strictest security is appropriate when the basis for the mistrial is the unavailability of critical prosecution evidence, 24 or when there is reason to believe that the prosecutor is using the superior resources of the State to harass or to achieve a tactical advantage over the accused.  25
At the other extreme is the mistrial premised upon the trial judge's belief that the jury is unable to reach a verdict, long considered the classic basis for a proper mistrial. 26 The argument that a jury's inability to agree establishes reasonable doubt as to the defendant's guilt, and therefore requires acquittal, has been uniformly rejected in this country.  Instead, without exception, the courts have held that   the trial judge may discharge a genuinely deadlocked jury and require the defendant to submit to a second trial. This rule accords recognition to society's interest in giving the prosecution one complete opportunity to convict those who have violated its laws.
Moreover, in this situation there are especially compelling reasons for allowing the trial judge to exercise broad discretion in deciding whether or not "manifest necessity" justifies a discharge of the jury.  On the one hand, if he discharges the jury when further deliberations may produce a fair verdict, the defendant is deprived of his "valued right to have his trial completed by a particular tribunal." But if he fails to discharge a jury which is unable to reach a verdict after protracted and exhausting deliberations, there exists a significant risk that a verdict may result from pressures inherent in the situation rather than the considered judgment of all the jurors. If retrial of the defendant were barred whenever an appellate court views the "necessity" for a mistrial differently from the trial judge, there would be a danger that the latter, cognizant of the serious societal consequences of an erroneous ruling, would employ coercive means to break the apparent deadlock.  Such a rule would frustrate the public interest in just judgments.  27   The trial judge's decision to declare a mistrial when he considers the jury deadlocked is therefore accorded great deference by a reviewing court.  28
We are persuaded that, along the spectrum of trial problems which may warrant a mistrial and which vary in their amendability to appellate scrutiny, the difficulty which led to the mistrial in this case also falls in an area where the trial judge's determination is entitled to special respect.
In this case the trial judge ordered a mistrial because the defendant's lawyer made improper and prejudicial remarks during his opening statement to the jury.  Although respondent insists that evidence of prosecutorial misconduct 29 was admissible as a matter of Arizona law, and therefore that the opening statement was proper, we regard this issue as foreclosed by respondent's failure to proffer any Arizona precedent supportive of his contention 30 and by the state court's interpretation of its own law, buttressed by the consistent opinion of the Federal District Court and the Court of Appeals.  Cf.  Bishop v. Wood, 426 U.S. 341, 346-347. We therefore start from the premise that defense counsel's comment was improper and   may have affected the impartiality of the jury.
We recognize that the extent of the possible bias cannot be measured, and that the District Court was quite correct in believing that some trial judges might have proceeded with the trial after giving the jury appropriate cautionary instructions.  In a strict, literal sense, the mistrial was not "necessary." Nevertheless, the overriding interest in the evenhanded administration of justice requires that we accord the highest degree of respect to the trial judge's evaluation of the likelihood that the impartiality of one or more jurors may have been affected by the improper comment.
The consistent course of decision in this Court in cases involving possible juror bias supports this conclusion.  Simmons v. United States, 142 U.S. 148, involved the possibility of bias caused by a newspaper story describing a letter written by defense counsel denying a charge by a third party that one of the jurors was acquainted with the defendant.  Without determining the truth or falsity of the charge, and without examining the jurors to ascertain what influence the story had upon them, the trial judge declared a mistrial because he considered it "'impossible that in the future consideration of this case by the jury there can be that true independence and freedom of action on the part of each juror which is necessary to a fair trial of the accused.'" Id., at 150. This Court affirmed, holding that the judge was justified in concluding that the publication of the letter had made it impossible for the jury "to act with the independence and freedom on the part of   each juror requisite to a fair trial of the issue between the parties." Id., at 155.
In Thompson v. United States, 155 U.S. 271, 279, the Court concluded that a mistrial was required when it was revealed that one of the trial jurors had served on the grand jury that indicted the defendant.  Since it is possible that the grand jury had heard no more evidence - and perhaps even less - than was presented at the trial, and since the juror in question may have had no actual bias against the defendant, the record did not demonstrate that the mistrial was strictly "necessary." There can be no doubt, however, about the validity of the conclusion that the possibility of bias justified the mistrial.
An improper opening statement unquestionably tends to frustrate the public interest in having a just judgment reached by an impartial tribunal. Indeed, such statements create a risk, often not present in the individual juror bias situation, 31 that the entire panel may be tainted.  The trial judge, of   course, may instruct the jury to disregard the improper comment.  In extreme cases, he may discipline counsel, or even remove him from the trial as he did in United States v. Dinitz, 424 U.S. 600. Those actions, however, will not necessarily remove the risk of bias that may be created by improper argument.  Unless unscrupulous defense counsel are to be allowed an unfair advantage, the trial judge must have the power to declare a mistrial in appropriate cases.  The interest in orderly, impartial procedure would be impaired if he were deterred from exercising that power by a concern that anytime a reviewing court disagreed with his assessment of the trial situation a retrial would automatically be barred.  The adoption of a stringent standard of appellate review in this area, therefore, would seriously impede the trial judge in the proper performance of his "duty, in order to protect the integrity of the trial, to take prompt and affirmative action to stop... professional misconduct." Id., at 612. 32
There are compelling institutional considerations militating in favor of appellate deference to the trial judge's evaluation of the significance of possible juror bias. 33 He has seen and heard the jurors during their voir dire examination.  He is the judge most familiar with the evidence and the background of the case on trial.  He has listened to the tone of the argument as it was delivered and has observed the apparent reaction of the jurors. In short, he is far more "conversant with the factors relevant to the determination" than any reviewing court can possibly be.  See Wade v. Hunter, 336 U.S. 684, 687.
III
Our conclusion that a trial judge's decision to declare a mistrial based on his assessment of the prejudicial impact of improper argument is entitled to great deference does not, of course, end the inquiry.  As noted earlier, a constitutionally protected interest is inevitably affected by any mistrial decision. The trial judge, therefore, "must always temper the decision whether or not to abort the trial by considering the importance to the defendant of being able, once and for all, to conclude his confrontation with society through the verdict of a tribunal he might believe to be favorably disposed to his fate." United States v. Jorn, 400 U.S., at 486 (Harlan, J.).  In order to ensure that this interest is adequately protected, reviewing courts have an obligation to satisfy themselves that, in the words of Mr. Justice Story, the trial judge exercised "sound discretion" in declaring a mistrial.
Thus, if a trial judge acts irrationally or irresponsibly, cf.  United States v. Jorn, supra; see Illinois v. Somerville, 410 U.S., at 469, his action cannot be condoned.  But our review of this record indicates that this was not such a case.  34 Defense   counsel aired improper and highly prejudicial evidence before the jury, the possible impact of which the trial judge was in the best position to assess. The trial judge did not act precipitately in response to the prosecutor's request for a mistrial. On the contrary, evincing a concern for the possible double jeopardy consequences of an erroneous ruling, he gave both defense counsel and the prosecutor full opportunity to explain their positions on the propriety of a mistrial. We are therefore persuaded by the record that the trial judge acted responsibly and deliberately, and accorded careful consideration to respondent's interest in having the trial concluded in a single proceeding.  Since he exercised "sound discretion" in handling the sensitive problem of possible juror bias created by the improper comment of defense counsel, the mistrial order is supported by the "high degree" of necessity which is required in a case of this kind.  35 Neither party has a right to have his case decided by a jury which may be tainted by bias; 36 in these circumstances, "the public's interest in fair trials designed to end in just judgments" 37 must prevail over the defendant's "valued right" to have his trial concluded before the first jury impaneled.
IV
One final matter requires consideration.  The absence of an explicit finding of "manifest necessity" appears to have been determinative for the District Court and may have been so for the Court of Appeals.  If those courts regarded that omission as critical, 38 they required too much.  Since the record provides sufficient justification for the state-court ruling, the failure to explain that ruling more completely does not render it constitutionally defective.
Review of any trial court decision is, of course, facilitated by findings and by an explanation of the reasons supporting the decision.  No matter how desirable such procedural assistance may be, it is not constitutionally mandated in a case such as this.  Cf.  Cupp v. Naughten, 414 U.S. 141, 146. The basis for the trial judge's mistrial order is adequately disclosed by the record, which includes the extensive argument of counsel prior to the judge's ruling.  The state trial judge's mistrial declaration is not subject to collateral attack in a federal court simply because he failed to find "manifest necessity" in those words or to articulate on the record all the factors which informed the deliberate exercise of his discretion.  39
The judgment of the Court of Appeals is
Reversed.
<concur author="BLACKMUN" text="NOTEXT">
MR. JUSTICE BLACKMUN concurs in the result.
<dissent author="WHITE_B" text="TRUE">
DISSENT BY: WHITE; MARSHALL
MR. JUSTICE WHITE, dissenting.
I cannot agree with the Court of Appeals that the failure of a state trial judge to express the legal standard under which he has declared a   mistrial is, in itself and without further examination of the record, sufficient reason to infer constitutional error foreclosing a second trial.  The Court's opinion in Townsend v. Sain, 372 U.S. 293 (1963), is to the contrary.  There, in the course of a full scale exposition of the proper approach to be followed by a federal court in determining whether a writ of habeas corpus should be issued on the petition of a state prisoner, the Court addressed the situation where the state trial judge, in making the challenged ruling, did not articulate the constitutional standard under which he acted.  The Court concluded that "the coequal responsibilities of state and federal judges in the administration of federal constitutional law are such that we think the district judge may, in the ordinary case in which there has been no articulation, properly assume that the state trier of fact applied correct standards of federal law to the facts, in the absence of evidence... that there is reason to suspect that an incorrect standard was in fact applied." Id., at 314-315. A silent record is not a sufficient basis for concluding that the state judge has committed constitutional error; the mere possibility of error is not enough to warrant habeas corpus relief.
The Court of Appeals, as well as the District Court, was therefore in error in granting relief without further examination of the record to determine whether the use of an incorrect legal standard was sufficiently indicated by something beyond mere silence and, if not, whether the declaration of a mistrial, which the Court of Appeals said it was "normally inclined to uphold," at least in the absence of "clear abuse of discretion," was constitutionally vulnerable.  I would not, however, undertake an examination of the record here in the first instance.  Rather, I would vacate the judgment of the Court of Appeals and direct that court to remand the case to the District Court to make the initial judgment, under the correct legal standard, as to whether the writ should issue.   This disagreement with the Court's disposition leads me to dissent.
<dissent author="MARSHALL_T" text="TRUE">
MR. JUSTICE MARSHALL, with whom MR. JUSTICE BRENNAN joins, dissenting.
The Court today holds that another trial of respondent, following a mistrial declared over his vehement objection, is not prohibited by the Double Jeopardy Clause.  To reach this result, my Brethren accord a substantial degree of deference to a trial court finding that the Court simply assumes was made but that appears nowhere in the record.  Because of the silence of the record on the crucial question whether there was "manifest necessity" for a mistrial, I believe that another trial of respondent would violate his constitutional right not to be twice put in jeopardy for the same offense.  I therefore dissent.
My disagreement with the majority is a narrow one.  I fully concur in its view that the constitutional protection of the Double Jeopardy Clause "embraces the defendant's 'valued right to have his trial completed by a particular tribunal,'" since a second prosecution inevitably "increases the financial and emotional burden on the accused, prolongs the period in which he is stigmatized by an unresolved accusation  of wrongdoing, and may even enhance the risk that an innocent defendant may be convicted." Ante, at 503-504 (footnotes omitted).  For these reasons, I also agree that, where a mistrial is declared over a defendant's objections, a new trial is permissible only if the termination of the earlier trial was justified by a "manifest necessity" and that the prosecution must shoulder the "heavy" burden of demonstrating such a "high degree" of necessity.  Ante, at 505-506.  Nor do I quarrel with the proposition that reviewing courts must accord substantial deference to a trial judge's determination that the prejudicial impact of an improper opening statement is so great as to leave no alternative but a mistrial to secure the ends of public justice.  Ante, at 510, 513-514.  1
Where I part ways from the Court is in its assumption that an "assessment of the prejudicial impact of improper argument," ante, at 514, sufficient to support the need for a mistrial, may be implied from this record.  As the courts below found, 2 it is not apparent on the face of the record that termination of the trial was justified by a "manifest necessity" or was the only means by which the "ends of public justice" could be fulfilled, United States v. Perez, 9 Wheat. 579, 580 (1824). See also ante , at 511.  Defense counsel's improper remarks occupied only one page of a lengthy opening statement. Despite the fact that the prosecutor had vigorously interrupted the opening statement at numerous points to assert various objections, 3 he made no objection to the remarks that formed the basis for the mistrial. If the argument of defense counsel had had a visibly obvious impact on the jurors when uttered, it is hard to believe that this prosecutor would have waited until after the opening statement was finished and the luncheon recess concluded before making his objection known.
Although from this distance and in the absence of express findings it is impossible to determine the precise extent to which defense counsel's remarks may have prejudiced the jury against the State, the circumstances set forth above suggest that any such prejudice may have been minimal and subject to cure through less drastic alternatives.  4 For example, the jury could have been instructed to disregard any mention of prior legal rulings as irrelevant to the issues at hand, and to consider as evidence only the testimony and exhibits admitted through witnesses on the stand.  5 Were there doubt   whether such instructions alone would suffice to cure the taint, the jury could have been questioned about the extent of any prejudice.  Given the anticipated length of the trial (almost two weeks), 6 it is not unlikely that, had the jury been appropriately instructed when the court first found defense counsel to have erred in his opening statement, any prejudice would have dissipated before deliberations were to begin.  For these reasons, it is impossible to conclude that a finding of necessity was implicit in the mere grant of the mistrial.7
As the majority concedes, ante, at 501, there was no express determination or evaluation by the trial court of the degree of prejudice caused by the improper remarks; nor was there any exploration of possible alternatives to the drastic solution of declaring a mistrial; nor, indeed, any express indication on the face of the record that the trial court was aware of the dictates of the Perez doctrine.  Over the two days during which the mistrial motion was argued, the entire thrust of the trial court's questions and comments was to determine whether there was any legal basis for admitting into evidence the Arizona Supreme Court's ruling that the prosecution in an earlier trial had suppressed evidence exculpatory of respondent, to which ruling defense counsel had adverted in opening statement. 8 The tenor of the court's remarks throughout - including its statement in declaring the mistrial 9 - suggests that the only question considered was that of admissibility. 10
There is no doubt that the trial court's exploration of the evidentiary question was conscientious and deliberate. The majority infers from this care that the trial court must have been aware of the correct legal standard governing the permissibility of retrials following mistrials, and must impliedly, though not expressly, have made the requisite findings of necessity.  The deliberation with which the trial court dealt with the evidentiary issue, however, only highlights its failure to address what I believe must be the key inquiry: whether a mistrial, and its abrogation of a defendant's constitutionally protected interest in completing his trial before a particular tribunal, United States v. Jorn, 400 U.S. 470, 486 (1971) (plurality opinion of Harlan, J.); Wade v. Hunter, 336 U.S. 684, 689 (1949), is the only way to secure the public interest in a just disposition of the charges.
I do not propose that the Constitution invariably requires a trial judge to make findings of necessity on the record to justify the declaration of a mistrial over a defendant's objections.  For example, where the nature of the error is one that "would make reversal  on appeal a certainty," Illinois v. Somerville, 410 U.S. 458, 464 (1973), the appropriate finding may be implied from the declaration of a mistrial. 11 What the "manifest necessity" doctrine does require, in my view, is that the record make clear either that there were no meaningful and practical alternatives to a mistrial, or that the trial court scrupulously considered available alternatives and found all wanting but a termination of the proceedings.  See United States v. Jorn, supra , at 485; Illinois v. Somerville, supra, at 478-479 (MARSHALL, J., dissenting).  The record here, as demonstrated above, does neither.
Where the need for a mistrial is not "plain and obvious," United States v. Perez, 9 Wheat., at 580, the importance of an affirmative indication that the trial court made the relevant findings is apparent.  In the chaos of conducting a trial, with the welter of administrative as well as legal concerns that must occupy the mind of the trial judge, it is all too easy to overlook a legal rule or relevant factor in rendering decision.  A requirement of some statement on the record addressed to the need for a mistrial would ensure that appropriate consideration is given to the efficacy of other alternatives and that mistrial decisions are not based upon improper, or only partly adequate, criteria.  Of particular relevance here, moreover, it would facilitate proper appellate and habeas review, avoiding the need to speculate on the basis for the decision to   terminate the trial.  12 These considerations have special force when a mistrial is sought on the ground of jury bias resulting from trial counsel's error.  The trial court is uniquely situated to evaluate the seriousness of any such prejudice, see ante, at 513-514, and its failure contemporaneously to do so may preclude meaningful subsequent determination of whether the mistrial was properly granted over the defendant's objection.  Thus, where the necessity for a mistrial is not manifest on the face of the record, I would hold that the record must clearly indicate that the trial court made a considered choice among the available alternatives.  13
Had the court here explored alternatives on the record, or made a finding of substantial and incurable prejudice or other "manifest necessity," this would be a different case and one in which I would agree with both the majority's reasoning and its result.  14 On this ambiguous record, however, the   absence of any such finding - and indeed of any express indication that the trial court applied the manifest-necessity doctrine - leaves open the substantial possibility that there was in fact no need to terminate the proceedings.  While the Court states that a "high degree" of necessity is required before a mistrial may properly be granted, its reading of the record here is inconsistent with this principle.
I would therefore affirm the judgment of the Court of Appeals.
