PER CURIAM.
Petitioner Commonwealth seeks review of a judgment of the Supreme Court of Pennsylvania reversing respondent's conviction for carrying a concealed deadly weapon and a firearm without a license. That court reversed the conviction because it held that respondent's "revolver was seized in a manner   which violated the Fourth Amendment to the Constitution of the United States." 471 Pa. 546, 548, 370 A. 2d 1157, 1158 (1977). Because we disagree with this conclusion, we grant the Commonwealth's petition for certiorari and reverse the judgment of the Supreme Court of Pennsylvania.
The facts are not in dispute.  While on routine patrol, two Philadelphia police officers observed respondent Harry Mimms driving an automobile with an expired license plate.  The officers stopped the vehicle for the purpose of issuing a traffic summons.  One of the officers approached and asked respondent to step out of the car and produce his owner's card and operator's license. Respondent alighted, whereupon the officer noticed a large bulge under respondent's sports jacket. Fearing that the bulge might be a weapon, the officer frisked respondent and discovered in his waistband a .38-caliber revolver loaded with five rounds of ammunition.  The other occupant of the car was carrying a .32-caliber revolver. Respondent was immediately arrested and subsequently indicted for carrying a concealed deadly weapon and for unlawfully carrying a firearm without a license. His motion to suppress the revolver was denied; and, after a trial at which the revolver was introduced into evidence, respondent was convicted on both counts.
As previously indicated, the Supreme Court of Pennsylvania reversed respondent's conviction, however, holding that the revolver should have been suppressed because it was seized contrary to the guarantees contained in the Fourth and Fourteenth Amendments to the United States Constitution.  1 The Pennsylvania court did not doubt that the officers acted reasonably in stopping the car.  It was also willing to assume, arguendo, that the limited search for weapons was proper once the officer observed the bulge under respondent's coat. But the court nonetheless thought the search constitutionally infirm   because the officer's order to respondent to get out of the car was an impermissible "seizure." This was so because the officer could not point to "objective observable facts to support a suspicion that criminal activity was afoot or that the occupants of the vehicle posed a threat to police safety." 2 Since this unconstitutional intrusion led directly to observance of the bulge and to the subsequent "pat down," the revolver was the fruit of an unconstitutional search, and, in the view of the Supreme Court of Pennsylvania, should have been suppressed.
We do not agree with this conclusion.  3  The touchstone of our analysis under the Fourth Amendment is always "the reasonableness in all the circumstances of the particular governmental invasion of a citizen's personal security." Terry v. Ohio,   392 U.S. 1, 19 (1968). Reasonableness, of course, depends "on a balance between the public interest and the individual's right to personal security free from arbitrary interference by law officers." United States v. Brignoni-Ponce, 422 U.S. 873, 878 (1975).
In this case, unlike Terry v. Ohio, there is no question about the propriety of the initial restrictions on respondent's freedom of movement.  Respondent was driving an automobile with expired license tags in violation of the Pennsylvania Motor Vehicle Code.  4 Deferring for a moment the legality of the "frisk" once the bulge had been observed, we need presently deal only with the narrow question of whether the order to get out of the car, issued after the driver was lawfully detained, was reasonable and thus permissible under the Fourth Amendment. This inquiry must therefore focus not on the intrusion resulting from the request to stop the vehicle or from the later "pat-down," but on the incremental intrusion resulting from the request to get out of the car once the vehicle was lawfully stopped.
Placing the question in this narrowed frame, we look first to that side of the balance which bears the officer's interest in taking the action that he did. The State freely concedes the officer had no reason to suspect foul play from the particular driver at the time of the stop, there having been nothing unusual or suspicious about his behavior.  It was apparently his   practice to order all drivers out of their vehicles as a matter of course whenever they had been stopped for a traffic violation. The State argues that this practice was adopted as a precautionary measure to afford a degree of protection to the officer and that it may be justified on that ground. Establishing a face-to-face confrontation diminishes the possibility, otherwise substantial, that the driver can make unobserved movements; this, in turn, reduces the likelihood that the officer will be the victim of an assault.  5
We think it too plain for argument that the State's proffered justification--the safety of the officer--is both legitimate and weighty. "Certainly it would be unreasonable to require that police officers take unnecessary risks in the performance of their duties." Terry v. Ohio, supra, at 23.And we have specifically recognized the inordinate risk confronting an officer as he approaches a person seated in an automobile.  "According to one study, approximately 30% of police shootings occurred when a police officer approached a suspect seated in an automobile.  Bristow, Police Officer Shootings--A Tactical Evaluation, 54 J. Crim. L.C. & P.S. 93 (1963)." Adams v. Williams, 407 U.S. 143, 148 n. 3 (1972). We are aware that not all these assaults occur when issuing traffic summons, but we have before expressly declined to accept the argument that traffic violations necessarily involve less danger to officers than other types of confrontations.  United States v. Robinson, 414 U.S. 218, 234 (1973). Indeed, it appears "that a significant percentage of murders of police officers occurs when the officers are making traffic stops." Id., at 234 n. 5.
The  hazard of accidental injury from passing traffic to an officer standing on the driver's side of the vehicle may also be appreciable in some situations.  Rather than conversing while standing exposed to moving traffic, the officer prudently may prefer to ask the driver of the vehicle to step out of the car and off onto the shoulder of the road where the inquiry may be pursued with greater safety to both.
Against this important interest we are asked to weigh the intrusion into the driver's personal liberty occasioned not by the initial stop of the vehicle, which was admittedly justified, but by the order to get out of the car.  We think this additional intrusion can only be described as de minimis. The driver is being asked to expose to view very little more of his person than is already exposed.  The police have already lawfully decided that the driver shall be briefly detained; the only question is whether he shall spend that period sitting in the driver's seat of his car or standing alongside it.  Not only is the insistence of the police on the latter choice not a "serious intrusion upon the sanctity of the person," but it hardly rises to the level of a "'petty indignity.'" Terry v. Ohio, supra, at 17.What is at most a mere inconvenience cannot prevail when balanced against legitimate concerns for the officer's safety.  6
There remains the second question of the propriety of the search once the bulge in the jacket was observed.  We have as little doubt on this point as on the first; the answer is controlled by Terry v. Ohio, supra. In that case we thought the officer justified in conducting a limited search for weapons once he had reasonably concluded that the person whom he had legitimately stopped might be armed and presently dangerous.  Under the standard enunciated in that case--whether "the facts available to the officer at the moment of the seizure or the search 'warrant a man of reasonable caution in the belief' that the action taken was appropriate" 7--there is little question the officer was justified.  The bulge in the jacket permitted the officer to conclude that Mimms was armed and thus posed a serious and present danger to the safety of the officer.  In these circumstances, any man of "reasonable caution" would likely have conducted the "pat-down."
Respondent's motion to proceed in forma pauperis is granted.  The petition for writ of certiorari is granted, the judgment of the Supreme Court of Pennsylvania is reversed, and the case is remanded for further proceedings not inconsistent with this opinion.
It is so ordered.
DISSENT BY: MARSHALL; STEVENS
MR. JUSTICE MARSHALL, dissenting.
I join my Brother STEVENS' dissenting opinion, but I write separately to emphasize the extent to which the Court today departs from the teachings of Terry  v. Ohio, 392 U.S. 1 (1968).
In Terry the policeman who detained and "frisked" the petitioner had for 30 years been patrolling the area in downtown Cleveland where the incident occurred.  His experience led him to watch petitioner and a companion carefully, for a long period of time, as they individually and repeatedly looked into a store window and then conferred together.  Suspecting that the two men might be "casing" the store for a "stick-up" and that they might have guns, the officer followed them as they walked away and joined a third man with whom they had earlier conferred.  At this point the officer approached the men and asked for their names.  When they "mumbled something" in response, the officer grabbed petitioner, spun him around to face the other two, and "patted down" his clothing.  This frisk led to discovery of a pistol and to petitioner's subsequent weapons conviction.  Id., at 5-7.
The "stop and frisk" in Terry was thus justified by the probability, not only that a crime was about to be committed, but also that the crime "would be likely to involve the use of weapons." Id., at 28. The Court confined its holding to situations in which the officer believes that "the persons with whom he is dealing may be armed and presently dangerous" and "fear for his own or others' safety." Id., at 30. Such a situation was held to be present in Adams v. Williams, 407 U.S. 143 (1972), which involved a person who "was reported to be carrying...a concealed weapon." Id., at 147; see id., at 146, 148.
In the instant case, the officer did not have even the slightest hint, prior to ordering respondent out of the car, that respondent might have a gun.  As the Court notes, ante, at 109, "the officer had no reason to suspect foul play." The car was stopped for the most routine of police procedures, the issuance of a summons for an expired license plate.  Yet the Court holds that, once the officer had made this routine stop, he was justified in imposing the additional intrusion of ordering respondent out of the car, regardless of whether there was any individualized reason to fear respondent.
Such a result cannot be explained by Terry, which limited the nature of the intrusion by reference to the reason for the  stop.  The Court held that "the officer's action  reasonably related in scope to the   circumstances which justified the interference in the first place." 392 U.S., at 20. 1 In Terry there was an obvious connection, emphasized by the Court, id., at 28-30, between the officer's suspicion that an armed robbery was being planned and his frisk for weapons. In the instant case "the circumstance... which justified the interference in the first place" was an expired license plate.  There is simply no relation at all between that circumstance and the order to step out of the car.
The institutional aspects of the Court's decision trouble me as much as does the Court's substantive result.  The Court extends Terry's expressly narrow holding, see id., at 30, solely on the basis of certiorari papers, and in the process summarily reverses the considered judgment of Pennsylvania's highest court. Such a disposition cannot engender respect for the work of this Court.  2 That we are deciding such an important issue by "reach out" in a case that "barely escapes mootness," as noted by MR. JUSTICE STEVENS, post, at 117, 116 n. 4, and that may well be resolved against the State on remand in any event, 3   simply reinforces my view that the Court does institutional   as well as doctrinal damage by the course it pursues today.  I dissent.
MR. JUSTICE STEVENS, with whom MR. JUSTICE BRENNAN and MR. JUSTICE MARSHALL join, dissenting.
Almost ten years ago in Terry  v. Ohio, 392 U.S. 1, the Court held that "probable cause" was not required to justify every seizure of the person by a police officer. That case was decided after six months of deliberation following full argument and unusually elaborate briefing.  1 The approval in Terry of a   lesser standard for certain limited situations represented a major development in Fourth Amendment jurisprudence.
Today, without argument, the Court adopts still another--and even lesser--standard of justification for a major category of police seizures. 2 More importantly, it appears to abandon "the central teaching of this Court's Fourth Amendment jurisprudence" 3--which has ordinarily required individualized inquiry into the particular facts justifying every police intrusion--in favor of a general rule covering countless situations.  But what is most disturbing is the fact that this important innovation is announced almost casually, in the course of explaining the summary reversal of a decision the Court should not even bother to review.
Since Mimms has already served his sentence, the importance of reinstating his conviction is minimal at best.  4 Even if the Pennsylvania Supreme Court has afforded him greater protection than is required by the Federal Constitution, the conviction may be invalid under state law.  5 Moreover, the Pennsylvania Supreme Court may still construe its own constitution to prohibit what it described as the "indiscriminate procedure" of ordering all traffic offenders out of their vehicles.  471 Pa. 546, 553, 370 A. 2d 1157, 1161 . 6 In all events, whatever error the state court has committed affects only the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania.  Its decision creates no conflict requiring resolution by this Court on a national level.  In most cases, these considerations would cause us to deny certiorari.
No doubt it is a legitimate concern about the safety of police officers throughout the Nation that prompts the Court to give this case such expeditious treatment.  I share that concern and am acutely aware that almost every decision of this Court holding that an individual's Fourth Amendment rights have been invaded makes law enforcement somewhat more difficult and hazardous.  That, however, is not a sufficient reason for this Court to reach out to decide every new Fourth Amendment issue as promptly as possible.  In this area of constitutional adjudication, as in all others, it is of paramount importance that the Court have the benefit of differing judicial evaluations of an issue before it is finally resolved on a nationwide basis.
This case illustrates two ways in which haste can introduce a new element of confusion into an already complex set of rules.  First, the Court has based its legal ruling on a factual assumption about police safety that is dubious at best; second, the Court has created an entirely new legal standard of justification for intrusions on the liberty of the citizen.
Without any attempt to differentiate among the multitude of varying situations in which  an officer may approach a person seated in an automobile, the Court characterizes the officer's risk as "inordinate" on the basis of this statement: S
"'According to one study, approximately 30% of police shootings occurred when a police officer approached a suspect seated in an automobile.  Bristow, Police Officer Shootings--A Tactical Evaluation, 54 J. Crim. L. C. & P. S. 93 (1963).' Adams v. Williams, 407 U.S. 143, 148 n. 3 (1972)." Ante, at 110.I
That statement does not fairly characterize the study to which it refers. Moreover, the study does not indicate that police officers can minimize the risk of being shot by ordering drivers stopped for routine traffic violations out of their cars.  The study reviewed 110 selected police shootings that occurred in 1959, 1960, and 1961.  7 In 35 of those cases, "officers were attempting to investigate, control, or pursue suspects who were in automobiles." 8 Within the group of 35 cases, there were examples of officers who "were shot through the wind shield or car body while their vehicle was moving"; examples in which "the officer was shot while dismounting from his vehicle or while approaching the suspects vehicle";  and, apparently, instances in which the officer was shot by a passenger in the vehicle.  Bristow, supra, n. 7, at 93.
In only 28 of the 35 cases was the location of the suspect who shot the officer verified.  In 12 of those cases the suspect was seated behind the wheel of the car, but that figure seems to include cases in which the shooting occurred before the officer had an opportunity to order the suspect to get out.  In nine   cases the suspect was outside the car talking to the officer when the shooting occurred.
These figures tell us very little about the risk associated with the routine traffic stop; 9 and they lend no support to the Court's assumption that ordering the routine traffic offender out of his car significantly enhances the officer's safety.  Arguably, such an order could actually aggravate the officer's danger because the fear of a search might cause a serious offender to take desperate action that would be unnecessary if he remained in the vehicle while being ticketed.  Whatever the reason, it is significant that some experts in this area of human behavior strongly recommend that the police officer "never allow the violator to get out of the car...." 10
Obviously, it is not my purpose to express an opinion on the safest procedure to be followed in making traffic arrests or to imply that the arresting officer faces no significant hazard, even in the apparently routine situation.  I do submit, however, that no matter how hard we try we cannot totally eliminate the danger associated with law enforcement, and that, before adopting a nationwide rule, we should give further consideration to the infinite variety of situations in which today's holding may be applied.
The Court cannot seriously believe that the risk to the arresting officer is so universal that his safety is always a reasonable justification for ordering a driver out of his car.  The commuter on his way home to dinner, the parent driving children to school, the tourist circling the Capitol, or the family on a Sunday afternoon outing hardly pose the same threat as a driver curbed after a high-speed chase through a high-crime area late at night.  Nor is it universally true that the driver's interest in remaining in the car is negligible.  A woman stopped at night may fear for her own safety; a person in poor health may object to standing in the cold or rain; another who left home in haste to drive children or spouse to school or to the train may not be fully dressed; an elderly driver who presents no possible threat of violence may regard the police command as nothing more than an arrogant and unnecessary display of authority. Whether viewed from the standpoint of the officer's interest in his own safety, or of the citizen's interest in not being required to obey an arbitrary command, it is perfectly obvious that the millions of traffic stops that occur every year are not fungible.
Until today the law applicable to seizures of a person has required individualized inquiry into the reason for each intrusion, or some comparable guarantee against arbitrary harassment.  11 A factual demonstration  of probable cause is required to justify an arrest; an articulable reason to suspect criminal activity and possible violence is needed to justify a stop and frisk. But to eliminate any requirement that an officer be able to explain the reasons for his actions signals an abandonment of effective judicial supervision of this kind of seizure and leaves police discretion utterly without limits.  Some citizens will be subjected  to this minor indignity while others--perhaps those with more expensive cars, or different bumper stickers, or different-colored skin--may escape it entirely.
The Court holds today that "third-class" seizures may be imposed without reason; how large this class of seizures may be or become we cannot yet know. Most narrowly, the Court has simply held that whenever an officer has an occasion to speak with the driver of a vehicle, he may also order the driver out of the car.  Because the balance of convenience and danger is no different for passengers in stopped cars, the Court's logic necessarily encompasses the passenger. This is true even though the passenger has committed no traffic offense.  If the rule were limited to situations in which individualized inquiry identified a basis for concern in particular cases, then the character of the violation might justify different treatment of the driver and the passenger. But when the justification rests on nothing more than an assumption about the danger associated with every stop--no matter how trivial the offense--the new rule must apply to the passenger as well as to the driver.
If this new rule is truly predicated on a safety rationale - rather than a desire to permit pretextual searches--it should also justify a frisk for weapons, or at least an order directing the driver  to lean on the hood of the car with legs and arms spread out.  For unless such precautionary measures are also taken, the added safety--if any--in having the driver out of the car is of no value when a truly dangerous offender happens to be caught.  12
I am not yet persuaded that the interest in police safety requires the adoption of a standard any more lenient than that permitted by Terry v. Ohio. 13 In this case the offense might well have gone undetected if respondent had not been ordered out of his car, but there is no reason to assume that he otherwise would have shot the officer.  Indeed, there has been no showing of which I am aware that the Terry standard will not provide the police with a sufficient basis to take appropriate protective measures whenever there is any real basis for concern.  When that concern does exist, they should be able to frisk a violator, but I question the need to eliminate the requirement of an articulable justification in each case and to authorize the indiscriminate invasion of the liberty of every citizen stopped for a traffic violation, no matter how petty.
Even if the Pennsylvania Supreme Court committed error, that is not a sufficient justification for the exercise of this Court's discretionary power to grant review, or for the summary disposition of a novel constitutional question. For this kind of disposition gives rise to an unacceptable risk of error and creates "the unfortunate impression that the Court is more interested in upholding the power of the State than in vindicating individual rights." Idaho Dept. of Employment v. Smith, ante, at 105 (STEVENS, J., dissenting in part).
I respectfully dissent from the grant of certiorari and from the decision on the merits without full argument and briefing.
