OPINION
MR. JUSTICE BRENNAN delivered the opinion of the Court.
We granted certiorari, 430 U.S. 929 (1977), to decide whether a trial judge (or designated United States Magistrate) who suspends a sentence of commitment and places a youth offender on probation pursuant to § 5010(a) of the Federal Youth Corrections Act (YCA), 18 U.S.C.  § 5005 et seq. (1976 ed.), may impose a fine, or require restitution, or both, as conditions of probation. 1
Each of the five petitioners pleaded guilty in a separate proceeding before a United States Magistrate to an offense for which penalties of fine or imprisonment or both are provided.  Petitioners Durst and Rice pleaded guilty to obstruction of the mails in violation of 18 U.S.C.  § 1701 (1976 ed.). Petitioners Blystone and Pinnick pleaded guilty to stealing property with a value less than $100 from a Government reservation in violation of 18 U.S.C.  § 661 (1976 ed.).  Petitioner Flakes pleaded guilty to theft of property belonging to the United States with a value less than $100 in violation of 18   U.S.C.  § 641 (1976 ed.).  Each petitioner was sentenced by a Magistrate, under § 5010(a), to probation and a suspended sentence of imprisonment. 2 Petitioner Flakes was ordered to pay a fine of $50 as a condition of probation and each of the others $100.  Petitioner Durst was also ordered to make restitution, in the amount of $160, as a condition of probation.
Each petitioner appealed his sentence to the United States District Court for the District of Maryland, which consolidated and affirmed the appeals.  Crim. Action No. N-75-0828 (June 25, 1976).  The United States Court of Appeals for the Fourth Circuit affirmed in an unpublished per curiam opinion, No. 76-1905 (Dec. 9, 1976), judgt. order reported at 549 F. 2d 799, relying on its earlier decision in United States v. Oliver, 546 F. 2d 1096 (1976), cert. pending, No. 76-5632, which had held that imposition of a fine as a condition of probation was consistent with the YCA.  In addition, the per curiam in the instant case stated: "For the reasons expressed in Oliver, we believe that a requirement of restitution is also consistent." App. 2.  We agree that, when placing a youth offender on probation under § 5010(a), the sentencing judge may require restitution, and, when the otherwise applicable penalty provision permits, impose a fine as a condition of probation, and therefore affirm the judgment of the Court of Appeals.
I
The YCA is primarily an outgrowth of recommendations of the Judicial Conference of the United States, see Dorszynski v. United States, 418 U.S. 424, 432   (1974), designed to reduce criminality among youth. Congress found that between the ages of 16 and 22, "special factors operated to produce habitual criminals.   then-existing methods of treating   criminally inclined youths were found inadequate in avoiding recidivism." Id., at 432-433 (citation omitted).
The core concept of the YCA, like that of England's Borstal System upon which it is modeled, 3 is that rehabilitative treatment should be substituted for retribution as a sentencing goal.  4 Both the Borstal System and the YCA incorporate three features thought essential to the operation of a successful rehabilitative treatment program: flexibility in choosing among a variety of treatment settings and programs tailored to individual needs; 5 separation of youth offenders from hardened criminals; 6 and careful and flexible control of the duration of commitment and of supervised release.  7   The YCA established the framework for creation of a treatment   program incorporating these features, and, as an alternative to existing sentencing options, authorized a sentence of commitment to the Attorney General for treatment under the Act.  Dorszynski, supra, at 437-440.
The Act contains four provisions regarding sentencing. Section 5010(a) provides that "f the court is of the opinion that the youth offender does not need commitment," imposition or execution of sentence might be suspended and the youth offender placed on probation. Sections 5010(b) and (c) provide that, if the youth is to be committed, the court might "in lieu of the penalty of imprisonment otherwise provided by law," sentence the youth offender to the custody of the Attorney General for treatment and supervision.  Section 5010(d) provides that "f the court shall find that the youth offender will not derive benefit from treatment under subsection (b) or (c)," the court may sentence the youth offender "under any other applicable penalty provision." 8
A particularly valuable benefit for the offender sentenced under the YCA is the prospect of obtaining a certificate setting aside his conviction.  A certificate automatically issues when a youth committed to the custody of the Attorney General under § 5010(b) or § 5010(c) is unconditionally released prior to expiration of the maximum sentence imposed.  18 U.S.C.  § 5021(a) (1976 ed.).  In 1961, the YCA was amended to extend the benefit of a certificate to youths sentenced to probation under § 5010(a) when the court unconditionally discharges the youth prior to expiration of the sentence of probation imposed. Act of Oct. 3, 1961, Pub. L. No. 87-336, 75 Stat. 750 .
Petitioners make two arguments in support of their submission that sentencing judges choosing the option under § 5010(a) of suspending sentence and placing the youth offender on probation may not impose a fine as a condition of probation. 9 First, they argue that the sentencing provisions of the YCA are alternatives to other sentencing provisions and therefore a substitute for the penalties provided in the statute for violation of which the youth offender was convicted; since § 5010 (a) does not explicitly authorize the imposition of fines, sentencing judges have no authority to impose them when sentencing under that provision.  Second, they argue that fines are necessarily punitive and their imposition therefore inconsistent with the rehabilitative goals of the YCA.  Neither of these arguments has merit.
II
The language of § 5010 (a) neither grants nor withholds the authority to impose fines or orders of restitution. Another provision of the YCA, however, § 5023 (a), incorporates by reference the authority conferred under the general probation statute to permit such exactions.  Section 5023 (a) provides: "Nothing in  shall limit or affect the power of any court to suspend the imposition or execution of any sentence and place a youth offender on probation or be construed in any wise to amend, repeal, or affect the provisions of chapter 231  of this title...  relative to probation." Chapter 231 is the general probation statute and 18 U.S.C.  § 3651 (1976 ed.) expressly provides, inter alia: S
"While on probation and among the conditions thereof, the defendant --
"May be required to pay a fine in one or several sums; and
"May be required to make restitution or reparation to aggrieved parties for actual damages or loss caused by the offense for which conviction was had...." 10I
Petitioners argue, however, that the sentencing provisions contained in § 5010 are separate and distinct from each other and from any other penalty provision. Recognizing that § 5023 (a) makes § 3651 applicable to a § 5010 (a) sentence, they now concede 11 that restitution is a permissible condition of a probationary sentence under § 5010 (a), because § 3651 directly authorizes restitution without resort to any other penalty provision. On the other hand, a fine may be imposed under § 3651 only if the penalty provision of the offense under which the youth is convicted so provides.  12 Thus, a fine is not permissible in conjunction with a § 5010 (a) sentence because it   requires resort to the offense penalty provision.
Petitioners' arguments are refuted by the legislative history of the Act.  The legislative history of § 5023 (a) clearly reveals that Congress intended thereby to preserve to sentencing judges their powers under the general probation statute when sentencing youth offenders to probation under § 5010 (a). The House Report accompanying S. 2609, 81st Cong., 1st Sess.  (1949), the bill which was enacted as the YCA, makes that clear in stating: S
"Under  provisions, if the court finds that a youth offender does not need treatment, it may suspend the imposition or execution of sentence and place the youth offender on probation. Thus, the power of the court to grant probation is left undisturbed by the bill." (Emphasis added.) H.R. Rep. No. 2979, 81st Cong., 2d Sess., 3 (1950).I
The same view was expressed during the House hearings on H.R. 2140, 78th Cong., 1st Sess.  (1943), a bill whose youth corrections provisions were nearly identical to those of S. 2609 introduced in 1949.  Judge Phillips, Chairman of the Subcommittee responsible for drafting model youth correction legislation to be sponsored by the Judicial Conference, emphasized that "t leaves  absolutely undisturbed," 13 for the intent of the Judicial   Conference in sponsoring the bill was to retain the existing options with respect to probation and adult punishment, while simply adding a new option of commitment for treatment.  See 1943 House Hearings 34-37.
The legislative history of §§ 5010 (b) and 5010 (c) but-tresses this understanding of the purpose of § 5023 (a).  Those subsections provide that commitment to the custody of the Attorney General is "in lieu of the penalty of imprisonment otherwise provided by law." The words "of imprisonment" did not appear in the original bill recommended by the Judicial Conference in 1943. H.R. 2140, supra, tit. III, § 1 (a), reprinted in 1943 House Hearings 3. Addition of the words "of imprisonment" was recommended in a letter from Attorney General Biddle to the House Subcommittee.  That letter, in which, according to the letter, members of the Judicial Conference concurred and which was read into the record at the Subcommittee hearings, explained the reason for adding the words "of imprisonment" as follows: S
"Sentence of the youth offender to the custody of the Authority should be a permissible alternative to a penalty of imprisonment otherwise provided by law but not to a penalty of a fine. It should, moreover, be possible for the court both to impose a fine and to sentence the offender to the custody of the Authority, where the law provides both fine and imprisonment as the penalties that may be imposed." (Emphasis added.) Letter from Francis Biddle to Francis E. Walter (June 7, 1943), reprinted in 1943 House Hearings 110-111.I
When introduced, S. 2609, supra, which was enacted into law, contained the words "of imprisonment" recommended by Attorney General Biddle.  This history of subsection (b) demonstrates that Congress added the words "of imprisonment" in order to preserve the pre-existing authority of judges to impose a fine in conjunction with commitment when the applicable penalty provision   provided for a penalty of fine and imprisonment. The fact that Congress contemplated that a sentence under subsections (b) and (c) would permit resort to the otherwise applicable penalty provision as authority for imposition of a fine, militates in favor of the same construction with respect to subsection (a).  There is no reason to believe that Congress directed that the subsections should be treated differently in that respect.  14
We conclude that Congress' purpose in adopting § 5023 (a), was to assure that a sentence under § 5010 (a) would not displace the authority conferred by § 3651 to impose fines and orders of restitution as conditions of probation.
With respect to petitioners' second argument, that fines are punitive and their imposition therefore inconsistent with the rehabilitative goals of the YCA, 15 it is sufficient answer that Congress expressed its judgment to the contrary in preserving the authority of sentencing judges to impose them as a condition of probation. Moreover, we are not persuaded that fines should necessarily be regarded as other than rehabilitative when imposed as a condition of probation. There is much force in the observation of the District Court: S
" fine could be consistent...  with the rehabilitative intent of the Act. By employing this alternative   and probation], the sentencing judge could assure that the youthful offender would not receive the harsh treatment of incarceration, while assuring that the offender accepts responsibility for his transgression.  The net result of such treatment would be an increased respect for the law and would, in many cases, stimulate the young person to mature into a good law-abiding citizen." App. 36-37.I
Affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE BLACKMUN took no part in the consideration or decision of this case.
