OPINION
MR. JUSTICE REHNQUIST delivered the opinion of the Court.
Two hundred years ago, the area bordering Puget Sound consisted of a large number of politically autonomous Indian villages, each occupied by from a few dozen to over 100 Indians.  These loosely related villages were aggregated into a series of Indian tribes, one of which, the Suquamish, has become the focal point of this litigation.  By the 1855 Treaty of Point Elliott, 12 Stat. 927, the Suquamish Indian Tribe relinquished all rights that it might have had in the lands of the State of Washington and agreed to settle on a 7,276-acre reservation near Port Madison, Wash.  Located on Puget Sound across from the city of Seattle, the Port Madison Reservation is a checkerboard of tribal community land, allotted Indian lands, property held in fee simple by non-Indians, and various roads and public highways maintained by Kitsap County. 1
The Suquamish Indians are governed by a tribal government which in 1973 adopted a Law and Order Code.  The Code, which covers a variety of offenses from theft to rape, purports to extend the Tribe's criminal jurisdiction over both Indians and non-Indians.  2 Proceedings are held in the Suquamish Indian Provisional Court. Pursuant to the Indian Civil Rights Act of 1968, 82 Stat. 77, 25 U.S.C.  § 1302, defendants are entitled to many of the due process protections accorded to defendants in federal or state criminal proceedings.  3 However, the guarantees are not identical.  Non-Indians, for example, are excluded from Suquamish tribal court juries.  4
Both petitioners are non-Indian residents of the Port Madison Reservation. Petitioner Mark David Oliphant was arrested by tribal authorities during the Suquamish's annual Chief Seattle Days celebration and charged with assaulting a tribal officer and resisting arrest.  After arraignment before the tribal court, Oliphant was released on his own recognizance.  Petitioner Daniel B. Belgarde was arrested by tribal authorities after an alleged high-speed race along the Reservation highways that only ended when Belgarde collided with a tribal police vehicle.  Belgarde posted bail and was released.  Six days later he was arraigned and charged under the tribal Code with "recklessly endangering another person" and injuring tribal property.  Tribal court proceedings against both petitioners have been stayed pending a decision in this case.
Both petitioners applied for a writ of habeas corpus to the United States District Court for the Western District of Washington. Petitioners argued that the Suquamish Indian Provisional Court does not have criminal jurisdiction over non-Indians.  In separate proceedings, the District Court disagreed with petitioners' argument and denied the petitions. On August 24, 1976, the Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit affirmed the denial of habeas corpus in the case of petitioner Oliphant.  Oliphant v. Schlie, 544 F. 2d 1007. Petitioner Belgarde's appeal is still pending before the Court of Appeals.  5 We granted certiorari, 431 U.S. 964, to decide whether Indian tribal courts have criminal jurisdiction over non-Indians.  We decide that they do not.
I
Respondents do not contend that their exercise of criminal jurisdiction over non-Indians stems from affirmative congressional authorization or treaty provision. 6 Instead, respondents urge that such jurisdiction flows automatically from the "Tribe's retained inherent powers of government over the Port Madison Indian Reservation." Seizing on language in our opinions describing Indian  tribes as "quasi-sovereign entities," see, e.g.,Morton v. Mancari, 417 U.S. 535, 554 (1974), the Court of Appeals agreed and held that Indian tribes, "though conquered and dependent, retain those powers of autonomous states that are neither inconsistent with their status nor expressly terminated by Congress." According to the Court of Appeals, criminal jurisdiction over anyone committing an offense on the reservation is a "sine qua non" of such powers.
The Suquamish Indian Tribe does not stand alone today in its assumption of criminal jurisdiction over non-Indians.  Of the 127 reservation court systems that currently exercise criminal jurisdiction in the United States, 33 purport to extend that jurisdiction to non-Indians.  7 Twelve other Indian   tribes have enacted ordinances which would permit the assumption of criminal jurisdiction over non-Indians.  Like the Suquamish these tribes claim authority to try non-Indians not on the basis of congressional statute or treaty provision but by reason of their retained national sovereignty.
The effort by Indian tribal courts to exercise criminal jurisdiction over non-Indians, however, is a relatively new phenomenon.  And where the effort has been made in the past, it has been held that the jurisdiction did not exist. Until the middle of this century, few Indian tribes maintained any semblance of a formal court system.  Offenses by one Indian against another were usually handled by social and religious pressure and not by formal judicial processes; emphasis was on restitution rather than on punishment.  In 1834 the Commissioner of Indian Affairs described the then status of Indian criminal systems: "With the exception of two or three tribes, who have within a few years past attempted to establish some few laws and regulations among themselves, the Indian tribes are without laws, and the chiefs without much authority to exercise any restraint." H.R. Rep. No. 474, 23d Cong., 1st Sess., 91 (1834).
It is therefore not surprising to find no specific discussion of the problem before us in the volumes of the United States Reports.  But the problem did not lie entirely dormant for two centuries.  A few tribes during the 19th century did have formal criminal systems.  From the earliest treaties with these tribes, it was apparently assumed that the tribes did not have criminal jurisdiction over non-Indians absent a congressional statute or treaty provision to that effect.  For example, the 1830 Treaty with the Choctaw Indian Tribe, which had one of the most sophisticated of tribal structures, guaranteed to the Tribe "the jurisdiction and government of all the persons and property that may be within their limits." Despite the broad terms of this governmental guarantee, however, the Choctaws at the conclusion of this treaty provision "express a wish that Congress may grant to the Choctaws the right of punishing by their own laws any white man who shall come into their nation, and infringe any of their national regulations." 8 Art. 4, 7 Stat. 333 (emphasis added).  Such a request for affirmative congressional authority is inconsistent with respondents' belief that criminal jurisdiction over non-Indians is inherent in tribal sovereignty. Faced by attempts of the Choctaw Tribe to try non-Indian offenders in the early 1800's the United States Attorneys General also concluded that the Choctaws did not have criminal jurisdiction over non-Indians absent congressional authority.  See 2 Op. Atty. Gen. 693 (1834); 7 Op. Atty. Gen. 174 (1855). According to the Attorney General in 1834, tribal criminal jurisdiction over non-Indians, is inter alia, inconsistent with treaty provisions recognizing the sovereignty of the United States over the territory assigned to the Indian nation and the dependence of the Indians on the United States.
At least one court has previously considered the power of Indian courts to try non-Indians and it also held against jurisdiction.  9 In Ex parte Kenyon, 14 F. Cas. 353 (No. 7,720) (WD Ark. 1878), Judge Isaac C. Parker, who as District Court Judge for the Western District of Arkansas was constantly exposed to the legal relationships between Indians and non-Indians, 10 held that to give an Indian tribal court "jurisdiction of the person of an offender, such offender must be an Indian." Id., at 355. The conclusion of Judge Parker was reaffirmed only recently in a 1970 opinion of the Solicitor of the Department of the Interior.  See Criminal Jurisdiction of Indian Tribes over Non-Indians, 77 I.D. 113. 11
While Congress was concerned almost from its beginning with the special problems of law enforcement on the Indian reservations, it did not initially address itself to the problem of tribal jurisdiction over non-Indians. For the reasons previously stated, there was little reason to be concerned with assertions of tribal court jurisdiction over non-Indians because of the absence of formal tribal judicial systems.  Instead, Congress' concern was with providing effective protection for the Indians "from the violences of the lawless part of our frontier inhabitants." Seventh Annual Address of President George Washington, 1 Messages and Papers of the Presidents, 1789-1897, pp. 181, 185 (J. Richardson ed., 1897).  Without such protection, it was felt that "all the exertions of the Government to prevent destructive retaliations by the Indians will prove fruitless and all our present agreeable prospects illusory." Ibid. Beginning with the Trade and Intercourse Act of 1790, 1 Stat. 137, therefore, Congress assumed federal jurisdiction over offenses by non-Indians against Indians which "would be punishable by the laws of  state or district... if the offense had been committed against a citizen or white inhabitant thereof." In 1817, Congress went one step further and extended federal enclave law to the Indian country; the only exception was for "any offence committed by one Indian against another." 3 Stat. 383, now codified, as amended, 18 U.S.C.  § 1152.
It was in 1834 that Congress was first directly faced with the prospect of Indians trying non-Indians.  In the Western Territory bill, 12 Congress proposed to create an Indian territory beyond the western-directed destination of the settlers; the territory was to be governed by a confederation of Indian tribes and was expected ultimately to become a State of the Union.  While the bill would have created a political territory with broad governing powers, Congress was careful not to give the tribes of the territory criminal jurisdiction over United States officials and citizens traveling through the area.  13 The reasons were quite practical: S
"Officers, and persons in the service of the United States, and persons required to reside in the Indian country by treaty stipulations, must necessarily be placed under the protection, and subject to the laws of the United States.  To persons merely travelling in the Indian country the same protection is extended.  The want of fixed laws, of competent tribunals of justice, which must for some time continue in the Indian country, absolutely requires for the peace of both sides that this protection should be extended." H.R. Rep. No. 474, 23d Cong., 1st Sess., 18 (1834).I
Congress' concern over criminal jurisdiction in this proposed Indian Territory contrasts markedly with its total failure to address criminal jurisdiction over non-Indians on other reservations, which frequently bordered non-Indian settlements. The contrast suggests that Congress shared the view of the Executive Branch and lower federal courts that Indian tribal courts were without jurisdiction to try non-Indians.
This unspoken assumption was also evident in other congressional actions during the 19th century.  In 1854, for example, Congress amended the Trade and Intercourse Act to proscribe the prosecution in federal court of an Indian who has already been tried in tribal court.  § 3, 10 Stat. 270, now codified, as amended, 18 U.S.C.  § 1152. No similar provision, such as would have been required by parallel logic if tribal courts had jurisdiction over non-Indians, was enacted barring retrial of non-Indians.  Similarly, in the Major Crimes Act of 1885, Congress placed under the jurisdiction of federal courts Indian offenders who commit certain specified major offenses.  Act of Mar. 3, 1885, § 9, 23 Stat. 385, now codified, as amended, 18 U.S.C.  § 1153. If tribal courts may try non-Indians, however, as respondents contend, those tribal courts are free to try non-Indians even for such major offenses as Congress may well have given the federal courts exclusive jurisdiction to try members of their own tribe committing the exact same offenses.  14
In 1891, this Court recognized that Congress' various actions and inactions in regulating criminal jurisdiction on Indian reservations demonstrated an intent to reserve jurisdiction over non-Indians for the federal courts.  In In re Mayfield, 141 U.S. 107, 115-116 (1891), the Court noted that the policy of Congress had been to allow the inhabitants of the Indian country "such power of self-government as was thought to be consistent with the safety of the white population with which they may have come in contact, and to encourage them as far as possible in raising themselves to our standard of civilization." The "general object" of the congressional statutes was to allow Indian nations criminal "jurisdiction of all controversies between Indians, or where a member of the nation is the only party to the proceeding, and to reserve to the courts of the United States jurisdiction of all actions to which its own citizens are parties on either side." Ibid. While Congress never expressly forbade Indian tribes to impose criminal penalties on non-Indians, we now make express our implicit conclusion of nearly a century ago that Congress consistently believed this to be the necessary result of its repeated legislative actions.
In a 1960 Senate Report, that body expressly confirmed its assumption that Indian tribal courts are without inherent jurisdiction to try non-Indians, and must depend on the Federal Government for protection from intruders.  15 In considering a statute that would prohibit unauthorized entry upon Indian land for the purpose of hunting or fishing, the Senate Report noted: S
"The problem confronting Indian tribes with sizable reservations is that the United States provides no protection against trespassers comparable to the protection it gives to Federal property as exemplified by title 18, United States Code, section 1863 .  Indian property owners should have the same protection as other property owners.  For example, a private hunting club may keep nonmembers off its game lands or it may issue a permit for a fee.  One who comes on such lands without permission may be prosecuted under State law but a non-Indian trespasser on an Indian reservation enjoys immunity.  This is by reason of the fact that Indian tribal law is enforceable against Indians only; not against non-Indians.I
. .  .
"Non-Indians are not subject to the jurisdiction of Indian courts and cannot be tried in Indian courts on trespass charges. Further, there are no Federal laws which can be invoked against trespassers.
.  .  .
"The committee has considered this bill and believes that the legislation is meritorious.  The legislation will give to the Indian tribes and to individual Indian owners certain rights that now exist as to others, and fills a gap in the present law for the protection of their property." S. Rep. No. 1686, 86th Cong., 2d Sess., 2-3 (1960) (emphasis added).I
II
While not conclusive on the issue before us, the commonly shared presumption of Congress, the Executive Branch, and lower federal courts that tribal courts do not have the power to try non-Indians carries considerable weight.  Cf.  Draper v. United States, 164 U.S. 240, 245-247 (1896);Morris v. Hitchcock, 194 U.S. 384, 391-393 (1904);Warren Trading Post Co. v. Arizona Tax Comm'n, 380 U.S. 685, 690 (1965);DeCoteau v. District County Court, 420 U.S. 425, 444-445 (1975).  "Indian law" draws principally upon the treaties drawn and executed by the Executive Branch and legislation passed by Congress.  These instruments, which beyond their actual text form the backdrop for the intricate web of judicially made Indian law, cannot be interpreted in isolation but must be read in light of the common notions of the day and the assumptions of those who drafted them.  Ibid.
While in isolation the Treaty of Point Elliott, 12 Stat. 927 (1855), would appear to be silent as to tribal criminal jurisdiction over non-Indians, the addition of historical perspective casts substantial doubt upon the existence of such jurisdiction.  16 In the Ninth Article, for  example, the Suquamish "acknowledge their dependence on the government of the United States." As Mr. Chief Justice Marshall explained in Worcester v. Georgia, 6 Pet. 515, 551-552, 554 (1832), such an acknowledgment is not a mere abstract recognition of the United States' sovereignty. "The Indian nations were,   from their situation, necessarily dependent on ... for their protection from lawless and injurious intrusions into their country." Id., at 555.   By acknowledging their dependence on the United States, in the Treaty of Point Elliott, the Suquamish were in all probability recognizing that the United States would arrest and try non-Indian intruders who came within their Reservation. Other provisions of the Treaty also point to the absence of tribal jurisdiction.  Thus the Tribe "agree not to shelter or conceal offenders against the laws of the United States, but to deliver them up to the authorities for trial." Read in conjunction with 18 U.S.C.  § 1152, which extends federal enclave law to non-Indian offenses on Indian reservations, this provision implies that the Suquamish are to promptly deliver up any non-Indian offender,  rather than try and punish him themselves.  17
By themselves, these treaty provisions would probably not be sufficient to remove criminal jurisdiction over non-Indians if the Tribe otherwise retained such jurisdiction.  But an examination of our earlier precedents satisfies us that,   even ignoring treaty   provisions and congressional policy, Indians do not have criminal jurisdiction over non-Indians absent affirmative delegation of such power by Congress. Indian tribes do retain elements of "quasi-sovereign" authority after ceding their lands to the United States and announcing their dependence on the Federal Government.  See Cherokee Nation v. Georgia, 5 Pet. 1, 15 (1831). But the tribes' retained powers are not such that they are limited only by specific restrictions in treaties or congressional enactments.  As the Court of Appeals recognized, Indian tribes are prohibited from exercising both those powers of autonomous states that are expressly terminated by Congress and those powers " inconsistent with their status." Oliphant v. Schlie, 544 F. 2d, at 1009 (emphasis added).
Indian reservations are "a part of the territory of the United States." United States v. Rogers, 4 How. 567, 571  (1846).Indian tribes "hold and occupy  with the assent of the United States, and under their authority." Id., at 572. Upon incorporation into the territory of the United States, the Indian tribes thereby come under the territorial sovereignty of the United States and their exercise of separate power is constrained so as not to conflict with the interests of this overriding sovereignty. "heir rights to complete sovereignty, as independent nations,  necessarily diminished." Johnson v. M'Intosh, 8 Wheat. 543, 574 (1823).
We have already described some of the inherent limitations on tribal powers that stem from their incorporation into the United States.  In d">Johnson v. M'Intosh, supra, we noted that the Indian tribes' "power to dispose of the soil at their own will, to whomsoever they pleased," was inherently lost to the overriding sovereignty of the United States.  And in Cherokee Nation v. Georgia, supra, the Chief Justice observed that since Indian tribes are "completely under the sovereignty and dominion of the United States,... any attempt  to acquire their lands, or to form a political connexion with them, would be considered by all as an invasion of our territory, and an act of hostility." 5 Pet., at 17-18.
Nor are the intrinsic limitations on Indian tribal authority restricted to limitations on the tribes' power to transfer lands or exercise external political sovereignty. In the first case to reach this Court dealing with the status of Indian tribes, Mr. Justice Johnson in a separate concurrence summarized the nature of the limitations inherently flowing from the overriding sovereignty of the United States as follows: "he restrictions upon the right of soil in the Indians, amount... to an exclusion of all competitors  from their markets; and the limitation upon their sovereignty amounts to the right of governing every person within their limits except themselves." Fletcher v. Peck, 6 Cranch 87, 147 (1810) (emphasis added).  Protection of territory within its external political boundaries is, of course, as central to the sovereign interests of the United States as it is to any other sovereign nation.  But from the formation of the Union and the adoption of the Bill of Rights, the United States has manifested an equally great solicitude that its citizens be protected by the United States from unwarranted intrusions on their personal liberty. The power of the United States to try and criminally punish is an important manifestation of the power to restrict personal liberty.  By submitting to the overriding sovereignty of the United States, Indian tribes therefore necessarily give up their power to try non-Indian citizens of the United States except in a manner acceptable to Congress.  This principle would have been obvious a century ago when most Indian tribes were characterized by a "want of fixed laws  of competent tribunals of justice." H.R. Rep. No. 474, 23d Cong., 1st Sess., 18 (1834).  It should be no less obvious today, even though present-day Indian tribal courts embody dramatic advances over their historical antecedents.
In Ex parte Crow Dog, 109 U.S. 556 (1883), the Court was faced with almost the inverse of the issue before us here whether, prior to the passage of the Major Crimes Act, federal courts had jurisdiction to try Indians who had offended against fellow Indians on reservation land.  In concluding that criminal jurisdiction was exclusively in the tribe, it found particular guidance in the "nature and circumstances of the case." The United States was seeking to extend United States S
"law, by argument and inference only,... over aliens and strangers; over the members of a community separated by race  tradition,... from the authority and power which seeks to impose upon them the restraints of an external and unknown code...; which judges them by a standard made by others and not for them....  It tries them, not by their peers, nor by the customs of   their people, nor the law of their land, but by... a different race, according to the law of a social state of which they have an imperfect conception...." Id., at 571.I
These considerations, applied here to the non-Indian rather than Indian offender, speak equally strongly against the validity of respondents' contention that Indian tribes, although fully subordinated to the sovereignty of the United States, retain the power to try non-Indians according to their own customs and procedure.
As previously noted, Congress extended the jurisdiction of federal courts, in the Trade and Intercourse Act of 1790, to offenses committed by non-Indians against Indians within Indian Country.  In doing so, Congress was careful to extend to the non-Indian offender the basic criminal rights that would attach in non-Indian related cases.  Under respondents' theory, however, Indian tribes would have been free to try the same non-Indians without these careful proceedings unless Congress affirmatively legislated to the contrary.  Such an exercise of jurisdiction over non-Indian citizens of the United States would belie the tribes' forfeiture of full sovereignty in return for the protection of the United States.
In summary, respondents' position ignores that S
"Indians are within the geographical limits of the United States.  The soil and people within these limits are under the political control of the Government of the United States, or of the States of the Union.  There exist in the broad domain of sovereignty but these two.  There may be cities, counties, and other organized bodies with limited legislative functions, but they... exist in subordination to one or the other of these." United States v. Kagama, 118 U.S. 375, 379 (1886).I
We recognize that some Indian tribal court systems have become increasingly sophisticated and resemble in many respects their state counterparts. We also acknowledge that with the passage of the Indian Civil Rights Act of 1968, which extends certain basic procedural rights to anyone tried in Indian tribal court, many of the dangers that might have accompanied the exercise by tribal courts of criminal jurisdiction over non-Indians only a few decades ago have disappeared.  Finally, we are not unaware of the prevalence of non-Indian crime on today's reservations which the tribes forcefully argue requires the ability to try non-Indians.  18 But these are considerations for Congress to weigh in deciding whether Indian tribes should finally be authorized to try non-Indians.  They have little relevance to the principles which lead us to conclude that Indian tribes do not have inherent jurisdiction to try and to punish non-Indians.  The judgments below are therefore
Reversed.
MR. JUSTICE BRENNAN took no part in the consideration or decision of these cases.
<dissent author="MARSHALL_T" text="TRUE">
DISSENT BY: MARSHALL
MR. JUSTICE MARSHALL, with whom THE CHIEF JUSTICE joins, dissenting.
I agree with the court below that the "power to preserve order on the reservation... is a sine qua non of the sovereignty that the Suquamish originally possessed." Oliphant v. Schlie, 544 F. 2d 1007, 1009 (CA9 1976). In the absence of affirmative withdrawal by treaty or statute, I am of the view that Indian tribes enjoy as a necessary aspect of their retained sovereignty the right to try and punish all persons who commit offenses against tribal law within the reservation. Accordingly, I dissent.
