OPINION
MR. JUSTICE POWELL delivered the opinion of the Court.
This is an action brought under 42 U. S. C. § 1983 by homeowners in Memphis, Tenn., seeking declaratory and injunctive relief and damages against a municipal utility and several of its officers and employees for termination of utility service allegedly without due process of law. The District Court determined that respondents' claim of entitlement to continued utility service did not implicate a "property" interest protected by the Fourteenth Amendment, and that, in any event, the utility's termination procedures comported with due process. The Court of Appeals reversed in part. We granted certiorari to consider this constitutional question of importance in the operation of municipal utilities throughout the Nation.
I
Memphis Light, Gas and Water Division (MLG&W) 1 is a division of the city of Memphis which provides utility service. It is directed by a Board of Commissioners appointed by the City Council, and is subject to the ultimate control of the municipal government.  As a municipal utility, MLG&W enjoys a statutory exemption from regulation by the state public service commission.  Tenn. Code Ann. §§ 6-1306, 6-1317 (1971).
Willie S.  and Mary Craft, respondents here, 2 reside at 1019 Alaska Street in Memphis.  When the Crafts moved into their residence in October 1972, they noticed that there were two separate gas and electric meters and only one water meter serving the premises.  The residence had been used previously as a duplex.  The Crafts assumed, on the basis of information from the seller, that the second set of meters was inoperative.
In 1973, the Crafts began receiving two bills: their regular bill, and a second bill with an account number in the name of Willie C. Craft, as opposed to Willie S. Craft.  Separate monthly bills were received for each set of meters, with a city service fee 3 appearing on each bill.  In October 1973, after learning from a MLG&W meter reader that both sets of meters were running in their home, the Crafts hired a private plumber and electrical contractor to combine the meters into one gas and one electric meter. Because the contractor did not consolidate the meters properly, a condition of which the Crafts were not aware, they continued to receive two bills until January 1974.  During this period, the Crafts' utility service was terminated five times for nonpayment.
On several occasions, Mrs. Craft missed work and went to the MLG&W offices in order to resolve the "double billing" problem.  As found by the District Court, Mrs. Craft sought in good faith to determine the cause of the "double billing," but was unable to obtain a satisfactory explanation or any suggestion for further recourse from MLG&W employees.  The court noted:
"On one occasion when Mrs. Craft was attempting to avert a utilities termination, after final notice, she called the defendant's offices and explained that she had paid a bill, but was given no satisfaction.  The procedure for an opportunity to talk with management was not adequately explained to Mrs. Craft, although she repeatedly tried to get some explanation for the problems of two bills and possible duplicate charges." Pet. for Cert. 38-39.
In February 1974, the Crafts and other MLG&W customers filed this action in the District Court for the Western District of Tennessee.  After trial, the District Court refused to certify the plaintiffs' class and rendered judgment for the defendants.  Although the court apparently was of the view that plaintiffs had no property interest in continued utility service while a disputed bill remained unpaid, it nevertheless addressed the procedural due process issue.  It acknowledged that respondents had not been given adequate notice of a procedure for discussing the disputed bills with management, but concluded that " of the individual plaintiffs  deprived of  due process opportunity to be heard, nor did the circumstances indicate any substantial deprivation except in the possible instance of Mr. and Mrs. Craft." Id., at 45. 4 The   court expressed "hope," "whether on the principles of  jurisdiction, or on the basis of a very limited possible denial of due process to Mr. and Mrs. Craft," that credit in the amount of $ 35 be issued to reimburse the Crafts for "duplicate and unnecessary charges made and expenses   incurred by  with respect to terminations which should have been unnecessary had effectual relief been afforded them as requested." The court also recommended "that MLG&W in the future send a certified or registered mail notice of termination at least four days prior to termination," and that such notice "provide more specific information about customer service locations and personnel available to work out extended payment plans or adjustments of accounts in genuine hardships or appropriate situations." Id., at 46-47. 5
On appeal, the Court of Appeals for the Sixth Circuit affirmed the District Court's refusal to certify a class action, but held that the procedures accorded to the Crafts did not comport with due process. 534 F.2d 684 (1976).
On July 12, 1976, petitioners sought a writ of certiorari in this Court to determine (i) whether the termination policies of a municipal utility constitute "state action" under the Fourteenth Amendment; (ii) if so, whether a municipal utility's termination of service for nonpayment deprives a customer of "property" within the meaning of the Due Process Clause; and (iii) assuming "state action" and a "property" interest, whether MLG&W's procedures afforded due process of law in this case. 6 On February 22, 1977, we granted certiorari. 429 U.S. 1090. We now affirm.
II
There is, at the outset, a question of mootness.  Although the parties have not addressed this question in their briefs,   "they may not by stipulation invoke the judicial power of the United States in litigation which does not present an actual 'case or controversy,' Richardson v. Ramirez, 418 U.S. 24 (1974) . . . ." Sosna v. Iowa, 419 U.S. 393, 398 (1975).
As the case comes to us, the only remaining plaintiffs are respondents Willie S. and Mary Craft. Since the Court of Appeals affirmed the District Court's refusal to certify a class, the existence of a continuing "case or controversy" depends entirely on the claims of respondents. Cf.  Sosna v. Iowa, supra, at 399, 402. It appears that respondents no longer desire a hearing to resolve a continuing dispute over their bills, as the double-meter problem has been clarified during this litigation. 7 Nor do respondents aver that there is a present threat of termination of service. "An injunction can issue only after the plaintiff has established that the conduct sought to be enjoined is illegal and that the defendant, if not enjoined, will engage in such conduct." United Transportation Union v. Michigan Bar, 401 U.S. 576, 584 (1971). Respondents insist, however, that the case is not moot because they seek damages and declaratory relief, and because the dispute that occasioned this suit is "capable of repetition, yet evading review." Tr. of Oral Arg. 45-46.
We need not decide whether this case falls within the special rule developed in Southern Pacific Terminal Co. v. ICC, 219 U.S. 498 (1911); see Moore v. Ogilvie, 394 U.S. 814, 816 (1969);Roe v. Wade, 410 U.S. 113, 125 (1973), to permit consideration of questions which, by their very nature, are not likely to survive the course of a normal litigation. Respondents' claim for actual and punitive damages arising from MLG&W's terminations of service saves this cause from the bar of mootness.  Cf.  Powell v. McCormack, 395 U.S. 486, 496-500 (1969).Although we express no opinion as to the validity of respondents' claim for damages, 8 that claim is not so insubstantial or so clearly foreclosed by prior decisions that this case may not proceed.
III
The Fourteenth Amendment places procedural constraints on the actions of government that work a deprivation of interests enjoying the stature of "property" within the meaning of the Due Process Clause.  Although the underlying substantive interest is created by "an independent source such as state law," federal constitutional law determines whether that interest rises to the level of a "legitimate claim of entitlement" protected by the Due Process Clause.  Board of Regents v. Roth, 408 U.S. 564, 577 (1972);Perry v. Sindermann, 408 U.S. 593, 602 (1972).
The outcome of that inquiry is clear in this case.  In defining a public utility's privilege to terminate for nonpayment of proper charges, Tennessee decisional law draws a line between utility bills that are the subject of a bona fide dispute and those that are not.
"A company supplying electricity to the public has a right to cut off service to a customer for nonpayment of a just service bill and the company may adopt a rule to that effect.  Annot., 112 A. L. R. 237 (1938). An exception   to the general rule exists when the customer has a bona fide dispute concerning the correctness of the bill.  Steele v. Clinton Electric Light & Power Co., 123 Conn. 180, 193 A. 613, 615 (1937); Annot., 112 A. L. R. 237, 241 (1938); see also 43 Am. Jur., Public Utilities and Services, Sec. 65; Annot., 28 A. L. R. 475 (1924). If the public utility discontinues service for nonpayment of a disputed amount it does so at its peril and if the public utility was wrong (e. g., customer overcharged), it is liable for damages.  Sims v. Alabama Water Co., 205 Ala. 378, 87 So. 688, 690, 28 A. L. R. 461 (1920)." Trigg v. Middle Tennessee Electric Membership Corp., 533 S. W. 2d 730, 733 (Tenn. App. 1975), cert. denied (Tenn. Sup. Ct. Mar. 15, 1976). 9
The Trigg court also rejected the utility's argument that plaintiffs had agreed to be bound by the utility's rules and regulations, which required payment whether or not a bill is received. "A public utility should not be able to coerce a customer to pay a disputed claim." Ibid. 10
State law does not permit a public utility to terminate service "at will." Cf.  Bishop v. Wood, 426 U.S. 341, 345-347 (1976). MLG&W and other public utilities in Tennessee are obligated to provide service "to all of the inhabitants of the city of its location alike, without discrimination, and without denial, except for good and sufficient cause," Farmer v. Nashville, 127 Tenn. 509, 515, 156 S. W. 189, 190 (1913), and may not terminate service except "for nonpayment of a just service bill," Trigg, 533 S. W. 2d, at 733. An aggrieved customer may be able to enjoin a wrongful threat to terminate, or to bring a subsequent action for damages or a refund. Ibid.  The availability of such local-law remedies is evidence of the State's recognition of a protected interest.  Although the customer's right to continued service is conditioned upon payment of the charges properly due, " Fourteenth Amendment's protection of 'property'  . . . has never been interpreted to safeguard only the rights of undisputed ownership." Fuentes v. Shevin, 407 U.S. 67, 86 (1972). Because petitioners may terminate service only "for cause," 11 respondents assert a "legitimate claim of entitlement" within the protection of the Due Process Clause.
IV
In determining what process is "due" in this case, the extent of our inquiry is shaped by the ruling of the Court of Appeals.  We need go no further in deciding this case than to ascertain whether the Court of Appeals properly read the Due Process Clause to require (i) notice informing the customer not only of the possibility of termination but also of a procedure for challenging a disputed bill, 534 F.2d, at 688, and (ii) "' established  for resolution of disputes'" or some specified avenue of relief for customers who "dispute the existence of the liability," id., at 689.12
A
"An elementary and fundamental requirement of due process in any proceeding which is to be accorded finality is notice reasonably calculated, under all the circumstances, to apprise interested parties of the pendency of the action and afford them an opportunity to present their objections." Mullane v. Central Hanover Trust Co., 339 U.S. 306, 314 (1950) (citations omitted).  The issue here is whether due process requires that a municipal utility notify the customer of the availability of an avenue of redress within the organization should he wish to contest a particular charge.
The "final notice" contained in MLG&W's bills simply stated that payment was overdue and that service would be discontinued if payment was not made by a certain date.  As the Court of Appeals determined, "the MLG&W notice only  the customer to pay or face termination." 534 F.2d, at 688-689. MLG&W also enclosed a "flyer" with the "final notice." One "flyer" was distributed to about 40% of the utility's customers, who resided in areas serviced by "credit counseling stations." It stated in part: "If you are having difficulty paying your utility bill, bring your bill to our neighborhood credit counselors for assistance.  Your utility bills may be paid here also." No mention was made of a procedure for the disposition of a disputed claim.  A different "flyer" went to customers in the remaining areas.  It stated: "If you are having difficulty paying your utility bill and would like to discuss a utility payment plan, or if there is any dispute concerning the amount due, bring your bill to the office at . . . , or phone . . . ." Id., at 688 n. 4.
The Court of Appeals noted that "there is no assurance that the Crafts were mailed the just mentioned flyer," ibid., and implicitly affirmed the District Court's finding that Mrs. Craft was never apprised of the availability of a procedure for discussing her dispute "with management." 13 The District Court's description of Mrs. Craft's repeated efforts to obtain information about what appeared to be unjustified double billing -- "good faith efforts to pay for  utilities as well as to straighten out the problem" -- makes clear that she was not adequately notified of the procedures asserted to have been available at the time.  14
Petitioners' notification procedure, while adequate to apprise the Crafts of the threat of termination of service, was not "reasonably calculated" to inform them of the availability of "an opportunity to present their objections" to their bills.  Mullane v. Central Hanover Trust Co., supra, at 314. The purpose of notice under the Due Process Clause is to apprise the affected individual of, and permit adequate preparation for, an impending "hearing." 15 Notice in a case of this kind does not comport with constitutional requirements when it does not advise the customer of the availability of a procedure for protesting a proposed termination of utility service as unjustified. As no such notice was given respondents -- despite "good faith efforts" on their part -- they were deprived of the notice which was their due. 16
B
This Court consistently has held that  "some kind of hearing is required at some time before a person is finally deprived of his property interests." Wolff v. McDonnell, 418 U.S. 539, 557-558 (1974). We agree with the Court of Appeals that   due process requires the provision of an opportunity for the presentation to a designated employee of a customer's complaint that he is being overcharged or charged for services not rendered. 17 Whether or not such a procedure may be available to other MLG&W customers, both courts below found that it was not made available to Mrs. Craft. 18 Petitioners have not made the requisite showing for overturning these "concurrent findings of fact by two courts below . . . ." Graver Tank & Mfg. Co. v. Linde Air Products Co., 336 U.S. 271, 275 (1949). 19
Our decision in Mathews v. Eldridge, 424 U.S. 319 (1976), provides a framework of analysis for determining the "specific dictates of due process" in this case.
" prior decisions indicate that   identification of the specific dictates of due process generally requires consideration of three distinct factors: First, the private interest that will be affected by the official action; second, the risk of an erroneous deprivation of such interest through the procedures used, and the probable value, if any, of additional or substitute procedural safeguards; and finally, the Government's interest, including the function involved and the fiscal and administrative burdens that the additional   or substitute procedural requirement would entail." Id., at 334-335.
Under the balancing approach outlined in Mathews,   some administrative procedure for entertaining customer complaints prior to termination is required to afford reasonable assurance against erroneous or arbitrary withholding of essential services.  The customer's interest is self-evident.  Utility service is a necessity of modern life; indeed, the discontinuance of water or heating for even short periods of time may threaten health and safety.  And the risk of an erroneous deprivation, given the necessary reliance on computers, 20 is not insubstantial. 21
The utility's interests are not incompatible with affording the notice and procedure described above.  Quite apart from its duty as a public service company, a utility -- in its own business interests -- may be expected to make all reasonable efforts to minimize billing errors and the resulting customer dissatisfaction and possible injury.  Cf.  Goss v. Lopez, 419 U.S. 565, 583 (1975). Nor should "some kind of hearing" prove burdensome.  The opportunity for a meeting with a responsible employee empowered to resolve the dispute could be afforded well in advance of the scheduled date of termination. 22 And petitioners would retain the option to terminate service after affording this opportunity and concluding that the amount billed was justly due.
C
Petitioners contend that the available common-law remedies of a pretermination injunction, a post-termination suit for damages, and post-payment action for a refund are sufficient to cure any perceived inadequacy in MLG&W's procedures. 23
Ordinarily, due process of law requires an opportunity for "some kind of hearing" prior to the deprivation of a significant property interest.  See Boddie v. Connecticut, 401 U.S. 371, 379 (1971). On occasion, this Court has recognized that where the potential length or severity of the deprivation does not indicate a likelihood of serious loss and where the procedures underlying the decision to act are sufficiently reliable to minimize the risk of erroneous determination, government may act without providing additional "advance procedural safeguards," Ingraham v. Wright, 430 U.S. 651, 680 (1977); see Mathews v. Eldridge, supra, at 339-349.24
The factors that have justified exceptions to the requirement of some prior process are not present here. Although utility service may be restored ultimately, the cessation of essential services for any appreciable time works a uniquely final deprivation. Cf.  Stanley v. Illinois, 405 U.S. 645, 647-648 (1972). Moreover, the probability of error in utility cutoff decisions is not so insubstantial as to warrant dispensing with all process prior to termination. 25
The injunction remedy referred to by petitioners would not be an adequate substitute for a pretermination review of the disputed bill with a designated employee.  Many of the Court's decisions in this area have required additional procedures to further due process, notwithstanding the apparent availability of injunctive relief or recovery provisions.  It was thought that such remedies were likely to be too bounded by procedural constraints and too susceptible of delay to provide an effective safeguard against an erroneous deprivation. 26 These considerations are applicable in the utility termination context.
Equitable remedies are particularly unsuited to the resolution of factual disputes typically involving sums of money too small to justify engaging counsel or bringing a lawsuit. 27 An action in equity to halt an improper termination, because it is less likely to be pursued 28 and less likely to be effective, even if pursued, will not provide the same assurance of accurate decisionmaking as would an adequate administrative procedure.  In these circumstances, an informal administrative remedy, along the lines suggested above, constitutes the process that is "due."
V
Because   of the failure to provide notice reasonably calculated to apprise respondents of the availability of an administrative procedure to consider their complaint of erroneous billing, and the failure to afford them an opportunity to present their complaint to a designated employee empowered to review disputed bills and rectify error, petitioners deprived respondents of an interest in property without due process of law.
The judgment of the Court of Appeals is
Affirmed.
<dissent author="STEVENS" text="TRUE">
DISSENT BY: STEVENS
MR. JUSTICE STEVENS, with whom THE CHIEF JUSTICE and MR. JUSTICE REHNQUIST join, dissenting.
In my judgment, the Court's holding confuses and trivializes the principle that the State may not deprive any person of life, liberty, or property without due process of law. I have no quarrel with the Court's conclusion that as a matter of Tennessee law a customer has a legitimate claim of entitlement to continued utility services as long as the undisputed portions of his utility bills are paid.  For that reason, a municipality may not terminate utility service without giving the customer a fair opportunity to avoid termination either by paying the bill or questioning its accuracy.  I do not agree, however, that this record discloses any constitutional defect in the termination procedures employed by the Light, Gas and Water Division of the city of Memphis (Division).
The Court focuses on two aspects of the Division's collection procedures. First, according to the Court, the Division's standard form of termination notice did not adequately inform the customer of the availability of a procedure for protesting a proposed termination of service as unjustified. Ante, at 15. Second, the Division did not afford its customers an adequate   opportunity to meet with an employee who had the authority to settle billing disputes.  Ante, at 18.  Whether we consider the evidence describing the unusual dispute between the Crafts and the Division, or the evidence concerning the general operation of the Division's collection procedures, I find no basis for concluding that either of the Court's criticisms is justified; its conclusion that a constitutional violation has been proved is truly extraordinary.
Although the details of the dispute between the Crafts and the Division are obscure, the record describes the Division's customary practices in some detail. Each month the Division terminates the service of about 2,000 customers. 1 Terminations are preceded by a written notice advising the customer of the date by which payment must be made to avoid a cutoff and requesting the customer to contact the credit and collections department if he is having difficulty paying the bill. 2 The notices contain a prominent legend: 3
"PHONE 523-0711
INFORMATION CENTER"
Calls to the listed phone number are answered by 30 or 40 Division employees, all of whom are empowered to delay cutoffs for three days based on representations made by customers over the phone.  These employees also direct callers to credit counselors who are authorized to resolve disputes   on a more permanent basis and who can set up extended payment plans for customers in financial difficulty. 4
The District Court did not find that the Division's notice was defective in any respect or that its regular practices were not adequate to handle the Crafts' unusual problems.  The Crafts' dispute with the Division stemmed from the use of two sets of meters to measure utility consumption in different parts of the Crafts' home.  Ante, at 4.  The Crafts, believing they were being billed twice for the same utilities, did not pay on the second account.  In fact, the two accounts were independent; because the Crafts refused to pay the balance on the second account, the Division terminated their service on several occasions. 5 The District Court expressly found that the Division sent a final notice before each termination.
The District Court did not find that Mrs. Craft was unable to meet with credit department personnel possessing adequate authority to make an adjustment in her bill. 6 She was successful in working out a deferred-payment arrangement but apparently was unable to have the amount of the bills reduced.  The record therefore indicates that Mrs. Craft did meet with Division employees having adequate authority but simply failed to persuade any of them that there was any error in her bills. 7
I
The Court's constitutional objection to the Division's notice rests entirely on the classic statement from Mullane v. Central Hanover Trust Co., 339 U.S. 306, 314:
"An elementary and fundamental requirement of due process in any proceeding which is to be accorded finality is notice reasonably calculated, under all the circumstances, to apprise interested parties of the pendency of the action and afford them an opportunity to present their objections."
That statement identifies the two essential characteristics of adequate notice: It must inform the recipient of the impending loss; and it must be given in time to afford the recipient an opportunity to defend.  These essentials must, of course, be expressed in terms which the layman can understand.  The Division's notice unquestionably satisfied these two basic requirements. 8
No doubt there may be situations in which these two essentials would not be sufficient to constitute fair notice. For example, if the notice describes a threatened loss which can only follow a prescheduled hearing, it must also inform the recipient of the time and place of the hearing.  But I do not understand the Court to require municipal utilities to schedule a hearing before each termination notice is mailed.  The Court seems to assume, as I do, that no hearing of any kind is necessary unless the customer has reason to believe he has been overcharged. Such a customer may protest his bill in either of two ways: He may communicate directly with the utility, or he may seek relief in court.  In this case the Court finds the Division's notice constitutionally defective because it does not describe the former alternative.
The Division must "advise the customer of the availability of a procedure for protesting a proposed termination of utility service as unjustified." Ante, at 15.  That advice is much less valuable to the customer than an explanation of the legal remedies that are available if a wrongful termination should occur. Yet the Court wisely avoids holding that the customer must be given that sort of legal advice.  The advice the Court does require is wholly unnecessary in all but the most unusual situations.  For a homeowner surely need not be told how to complain about an error in a utility bill; it is, of course, helpful to include the telephone number and office address in the termination notice, but our democratic government would cease to function if, as the Court seems to assume, our citizenry were unable to find such information on their own initiative.  The Court's holding that the Division's notice was constitutionally defective rests on a paternalistic predicate that I cannot accept.
Even accepting the Court's predicate, a notice which advises customers to call the "information center" should be adequate; if not, it seems clear that advising customers to call, during normal business hours, a "dispute resolution center" manned by the same personnel would cure the constitutional   objection.  Distinctions of this small magnitude are the appropriate concern of administrative rulemaking; they are too trivial to identify constitutional error.
II
The Court's pronouncement "that due process requires the provision of an opportunity for the presentation to a designated employee of a customer's complaint that he is being overcharged or charged for services not rendered," ante, at 16, is equally divorced from the facts of this case.  The Division processes more than 30,000 complaints of excess charges each year, and it has designated scores of employees to hear and investigate those complaints.  Except for the Crafts' troubles, there is nothing in the record to suggest that the Division's customers are denied access to these employees, or that the employees lack the power to deal appropriately with meritorious complaints.  Indeed, as already noted, there is no finding by either of the courts below that the Crafts themselves did not meet with responsible officials empowered to resolve their dispute. 9
Although the Court's pronouncement in this case is therefore gratuitous, it cannot be dismissed as harmless.  For it warns municipal utilities that unless they provide "some kind of hearing,  " ibid., they may be acting unconstitutionally.  Just what, or why, additional procedural safeguards are   constitutionally required is most difficult to discern. 10
In deciding that more process is due, the Court relies on two quite different hypothetical considerations.  First, the Court stresses the fact that disconnection of water or heating "may threaten health and safety." Ante, at 18. Second, the Court discounts the value of the protection afforded by the available judicial remedies because the "factual disputes typically  sums of money too small to justify engaging counsel or bringing a lawsuit." Ante , at 21.  Neither of these examples is disclosed by this record.  The Crafts' dispute involved only a relatively small amount, but they did obtain counsel and thereafter they encountered no billing problems.
Although the Division's terminations number about 2,000 each month, the record does not reveal any actual case of harm to health or safety.  The District Court found that the Division does not discontinue service when there is illness in a home.  Since a customer can always avoid termination by the simple expedient of paying the disputed bill and claiming a refund, 11 it is not surprising that the real emergency case is rare, if indeed it exists at all. 12 When a true emergency does present a serious threat to health or safety, the customer will have ample motivation to take the important step of consulting counsel or filing suit even if the amount of his disputed bill is small.  A potential loss of utility service sufficiently grievous to qualify as a constitutional deprivation can hardly be too petty to justify invoking the aid of counsel or the judiciary.  Conversely, routine billing disputes too petty for the bench or the bar can hardly merit extraordinary constitutional protection.
Even if the customer does not consult counsel in a specific case, the potential damages remedy nevertheless provides far more significant protection against an unjustified termination than does the vague requirement of "some kind of hearing." Without the threat of damages liability for mistakes, the informal procedures required today would neither qualify the utility's ultimate power to enforce collection by terminating service nor deter the exercise of that power.  On the other hand, even without specific informal procedures, the danger of substantial liability will by itself ensure careful attention to genuine customer disputes.  The utility's potential liability therefore provides customers with real pretermination protection even though damages may not be recovered until later.
The need for a procedural innovation is not demonstrated by the record in this judicial proceeding, but rather is justified on the basis of hypothetical examples, information gleaned from cases not before us, and legislative reports.  See ante, at 18 nn. 20 and 21.  These justifications suggest that the Court's new rule is the product of a policy determination rather than a traditional construction of the Constitution.  As judges we have experience in appraising the fairness of legal remedies and judicial proceedings, but we have no similar ability to balance the cost of scheduling thousands of billing conferences against the benefit of providing additional protection to the occasional customer who may be unable to forestall an unjustified termination.
It is an unfortunate fact that when the State assesses taxes or operates a utility, it occasionally overcharges the citizen.  It is also unfortunate that effective collection procedures sometimes require the citizen to pay an unjust charge in order to forestall a serious deprivation of property.  But if the State has given the citizen fair notice and afforded him procedural redress which is entirely adequate when invoked by his lawyer, the demands of the Due Process Clause are satisfied.  I do not believe the Constitution requires the State to employ procedures that are so simple that every lay person can always act effectively without the assistance of counsel.
I respectfully dissent.
