OPINION
MR. JUSTICE POWELL delivered the opinion of the Court.
Only two Terms ago, this Court observed that   the "presumption of innocence, although not articulated in the Constitution, is a basic component of a fair trial under our system of criminal justice." Estelle v. Williams, 425 U.S. 501, 503 (1976). In this felony case, the trial court instructed the jury as to the prosecution's burden of proof beyond a reasonable doubt, but refused petitioner's timely request for instructions on the presumption of innocence and the indictment's lack of evidentiary value.  We are asked to decide whether the Due Process Clause of the Fourteenth Amendment requires that either or both instructions be given upon timely defense motions.
I
Petitioner was tried for robbery in 1976, allegedly having forced his way into the home of James Maddox and stolen a house key and a billfold containing $ 10 to $ 15.  During voir dire of the jury, defense counsel questioned the panel about their understanding of the presumption of innocence, 1 the burden of proof beyond a reasonable doubt, 2 and the fact that an indictment is not evidence. 3 The prosecutor then read the indictment to the jury. 4
The Commonwealth's only witness was Maddox.  He testified that he had known petitioner for several years and had entertained petitioner at his home on several occasions.  According to Maddox, petitioner and a friend knocked on his door on the evening of February 16, 1976, asking to be admitted.  Maddox refused, saying he had to go to bed.  The two left, but returned 15 minutes later.  They forced their way in, hit Maddox over the head, and fled with his billfold and house key, which were never recovered.
Petitioner then took the stand as the only witness for the defense.  He admitted having been at Maddox's home on other occasions, but denied going there on February 16 or participating in the robbery. He stated that he had spent that night with two friends sitting in a parked car, watching a rainstorm and a power failure.  Defense counsel requested the trial court to instruct the jury that " law presumes a defendant to be innocent of a crime," 5 and that the indictment, previously read to the jury, was not evidence to be considered against the defendant. 6 The court declined to give either instruction, and did not convey their substance in its charge to the jury.  It did instruct the jury as to the Commonwealth's burden of proving petitioner's guilt beyond a reasonable doubt. 7 Petitioner was found   guilty and sentenced to five years of imprisonment.
The Kentucky Court of Appeals affirmed, one judge dissenting.  551 S. W. 2d 813 (1977).Petitioner argued 8 -- and the Commonwealth denied 9 -- that he was entitled as a matter of due process under the Fourteenth Amendment to instructions that he was presumed to be innocent 10 and that his indictment was not evidence of guilt. Both sides briefed federal decisions at some length.  Nevertheless, the Court of Appeals rejected petitioner's presumption-of-innocence contention by citing Kentucky case law for the proposition "that as long as the trial court instructs the jury on reasonable doubt an instruction on the presumption of innocence is not necessary." Id., at 814. Without citing any authority, the court also declared that there was no merit in the position "that failure to give . . . an instruction  denies the defendant due process of the law." Ibid.  Because petitioner had not made a contemporaneous objection, the court refused to consider petitioner's additional contention that the prosecutor's closing argument had been improper. 11 The Supreme Court of Kentucky  denied discretionary review, and we granted certiorari, 434 U.S. 964   (1977). We now reverse.
II
"  The principle that there is a presumption of innocence in favor of the accused is the undoubted law, axiomatic and elementary, and its enforcement lies at the foundation of the administration of our criminal law." Coffin v. United States, 156 U.S. 432, 453 (1895). The Coffin Court traced the venerable history of the presumption from Deuteronomy through Roman law, English common law, and the common law of the United States.  While Coffin held that the presumption of innocence and the equally fundamental principle that the prosecution bears the burden of proof beyond a reasonable doubt were logically separate and distinct, id., at 458-461, sharp scholarly criticism demonstrated the error of that view, see, e. g., J. Thayer, A Preliminary Treatise on Evidence 551-576 (1898) (hereafter Thayer); 9 J. Wigmore, Evidence ยง 2511 (3d ed. 1940) (hereafter Wigmore); C. McCormick, Evidence 805-806 (2d ed. 1972) (hereafter McCormick). 12
Nevertheless, these same scholars advise against abandoning the instruction on the presumption of innocence, even when a complete explanation of the burden of proof beyond a reasonable doubt is provided. Thayer 571-572; Wigmore 407; McCormick 806.  See also ALI, Model Penal Code ยง 1.12 (1) (Proposed Off. Draft 1962).  This admonition derives from a perceived salutary effect upon lay jurors. While the legal scholar may understand that the presumption of innocence and the prosecution's burden of proof are logically similar, the ordinary citizen well may draw significant additional guidance from an instruction on the presumption of innocence. Wigmore described this effect as follows:
" a criminal case the term  does convey a special and perhaps useful hint over and above the other form of the rule about the burden of proof, in that it cautions the jury to put away from their minds all the suspicion that arises from the arrest, the indictment, and the arraignment, and to reach their conclusion solely from the legal evidence adduced. In other words, the rule about burden of proof requires the prosecution by evidence to convince the jury of the accused's guilt; while the presumption of innocence, too, requires this, but conveys for the jury a special and additional caution (which is perhaps only an implied corollary to the other) to consider, in the material for their belief, nothing but the evidence, i. e., no surmises based on the present situation of the accused.  This caution is indeed particularly needed in criminal cases." Wigmore 407.
This Court has declared that   one accused of a crime is entitled to have his guilt or innocence determined solely on the basis of the evidence introduced at trial, and not on grounds of official suspicion, indictment, continued custody, or other circumstances not adduced as proof at trial.  See, e. g., Estelle v. Williams, 425 U.S. 501 (1976) . And it long has been recognized that an instruction on the presumption is one way of impressing upon the jury the importance of that right.  See, e. g., United States v. Thaxton, 483 F.2d 1071, 1073 (CA5 1973); Reynolds v. United States, 238 F.2d 460, 463, and n. 4 (CA9 1956); People v. Hill, 182 Colo. 253, 257-258, 512 P. 2d 257, 259 (1973);  Carr v. State, 192 Miss. 152, 157, 4 So. 2d 887, 888 (1941); State v. Rivers, 206 Minn. 85, 93, 287 N. W. 790, 794 (1939); Commonwealth v. Madeiros, 255 Mass. 304, 316, 151 N. E. 297, 300 (1926); Reeves v. State, 29 Fla. 527, 542, 10 So. 901, 905 (1892). See also Holt v. United States, 218 U.S. 245, 253-254 (1910); Agnew v. United States, 165 U.S. 36, 51-52 (1897). While use of the particular phrase "presumption of innocence" -- or any other form of words -- may not be constitutionally mandated, the Due Process Clause of the Fourteenth Amendment must be held to safeguard "against dilution of the principle that guilt is to be established by probative evidence and beyond a reasonable doubt." Estelle v. Williams, supra, at 503. The "purging" effect of an instruction on the presumption of innocence, Thaxton, supra, at 1073, simply represents one means of protecting the accused's constitutional right to be judged solely on the basis of proof adduced at trial. 13
III
Petitioner argues that in the circumstances of this case, the purging effect of an instruction on the presumption of innocence was essential to a fair trial. He points out that the trial court's instructions were themselves skeletal, placing little emphasis on the prosecution's duty to prove the case beyond a reasonable doubt and none at all on the jury's duty to judge petitioner only on the basis of the testimony heard at trial.
Against the background of the court's rather Spartan instructions, the prosecutor's closing argument ranged far and wide, asking the jury to draw inferences about petitioner's conduct from "facts" not in evidence, but propounded by the prosecutor. For example, he described the reasonable-doubt standard by declaring that petitioner, "like every other defendant who's ever been tried who's in the penitentiary or in the reformatory today, has this presumption of innocence until proved guilty beyond a reasonable doubt." App. 45 (emphasis added).  This statement linked petitioner to every defendant   who turned out to be guilty and was sentenced to imprisonment.  It could be viewed as an invitation to the jury to consider petitioner's status as a defendant as evidence tending to prove his guilt. Similarly, in responding to defense counsel's rhetorical query as to the whereabouts of the items stolen from Maddox, the prosecutor declared that " of the first things defendants do after they rip someone   off, they get rid of the evidence as fast and as quickly as they can." Ibid. (emphasis added).  This statement also implied that all defendants are guilty and invited the jury to consider that proposition in determining petitioner's guilt or innocence. 14
Additionally, the prosecutor observed in his opening statement that Maddox "took   out" a warrant against petitioner and that the grand jury had returned an indictment, which the prosecutor read to the jury.  Thus, the jury not only was invited to consider the petitioner's status as a defendant, but also was permitted to draw inferences of guilt from the fact of arrest and indictment. 15 The prosecutor's description of those events was not necessarily improper, but the combination of the skeletal instructions, the possible harmful inferences from the references to the indictment, and the repeated suggestions that petitioner's status as a defendant tended to establish his guilt created a genuine danger that the jury would convict petitioner on the basis of those extraneous considerations, rather than on the evidence introduced at trial. That risk was heightened because the trial essentially was a swearing   contest between victim and accused. 16
IV
Against the need for a presumption-of-innocence instruction, the Commonwealth argues first that such an instruction is not required where, as here, the jury is instructed as to the burden of proof beyond a reasonable doubt. The trial court's truncated discussion of reasonable doubt, however, was hardly a model of clarity.  It defined reasonable doubt as "a substantial doubt, a real doubt." Id., at 40.  This definition, though perhaps not in itself reversible error, often has been criticized as confusing.  See, e. g., United States v. Muckenstrum, 515 F.2d 568, 571 (CA5), cert. denied, 423 U.S. 1032 (1975); United States v. Christy, 444 F.2d 448, 450 (CA6), cert. denied, 404 U.S. 949 (1971). And even if the instruction on reasonable doubt had been more clearly stated, the Commonwealth's argument ignores both the special purpose of a presumption-of-innocence instruction and the particular need for such an instruction in this case.
The Commonwealth also contends that no additional instructions were required, because defense counsel argued the presumption of innocence in both his opening and closing statements.  But arguments of counsel cannot substitute for instructions by the court.  United States v. Nelson, 498 F.2d 1247 (CA5 1974).Petitioner's right to have the jury deliberate solely on the basis of the evidence cannot be permitted to hinge upon a hope that defense counsel will be a more effective advocate for that proposition than the prosecutor will be in implying that extraneous circumstances may be considered. It was the duty of the court to safeguard petitioner's rights, a duty only it could have performed reliably.  See Estelle v. Williams, 425 U.S., at 503.  17
Finally, the Commonwealth argues that Howard v. Fleming, 191 U.S. 126 (1903), established that the Fourteenth Amendment does not require instructions on the presumption of innocence. In Howard, however, the trial court had instructed the jury to consider only the evidence and the law as received from the court. 18 The argument in Howard was not that   failure to give an explicit instruction on the presumption of innocence raised a danger that the jury might judge defendants on matters other than the evidence.  Instead, plaintiffs-in-error relied on Coffin for the erroneous proposition that the presumption of innocence is "evidence" to be weighed in the accused's favor.  Brief for Appellants in Howard v. Fleming, O. T. 1903, Nos. 44 and 45, pp. 111-113.  The Court had discarded this view some years before.  See n. 12, supra.  Thus, Howard held only that the accused is not entitled to an instruction that the presumption of innocence is "evidence." It did not cast doubt upon the additional function of the presumption as an admonition to consider only the evidence actually introduced, since such an instruction had been given.
V
We hold that on the facts of this case the trial court's refusal to give petitioner's requested instruction on the presumption of innocence resulted in a violation of his right to a fair trial as guaranteed by the Due Process Clause of the Fourteenth Amendment. The judgment of conviction is reversed, and the case is remanded for further proceedings not inconsistent with this opinion.
So ordered.
<concur author="BRENNAN" text="TRUE">
CONCUR BY: BRENNAN
MR. JUSTICE BRENNAN, concurring.
I join the Court's opinion because in reversing petitioner's conviction it reaffirms that "the 'presumption of innocence, although not articulated in the Constitution, is a basic component of a fair trial under our system of criminal justice,'" ante, at 479, quoting Estelle v. Williams, 425 U.S. 501, 503 (1976). It follows from this proposition, as is clear from the Court's opinion, that trial judges should instruct the jury on a criminal defendant's entitlement to a presumption of innocence in all cases where such an instruction is requested.
<dissent author="STEVENS" text="TRUE">
DISSENT BY: STEVENS
MR. JUSTICE STEVENS, with whom MR. JUSTICE REHNQUIST joins, dissenting.
In a federal court it is reversible error to refuse a request for a proper instruction on the presumption of innocence. Coffin v. United States, 156 U.S. 432, 460-461. 1 That is not, however, a sufficient reason for holding   that such an instruction is constitutionally required in every criminal trial. 2
The function of the instruction is to make it clear that the burden of persuasion rests entirely on the prosecutor. The same function is performed by the instruction requiring proof beyond a reasonable doubt. 3 One standard instruction adds emphasis to the other.  Neither should be omitted, but an "omission, or an incomplete instruction, is less likely to be prejudical than a misstatement of the law." Henderson v. Kibbe, 431 U.S. 145, 155. In some cases the omission may be fatal, but the Court wisely avoids a holding that this is always so.
In this case the omission did not violate a specific constitutional guarantee, such as the privilege against compulsory self-incrimination.  4 Nor did it deny the defendant his fundamental right to a fair trial. An instruction on reasonable doubt, admittedly brief, was given.  The voir dire had made clear to each juror the defendant's right to be presumed innocent despite his indictment. 5 The prosecutor's closing argument did not precipitate any objection from defense counsel who listened to it; it may not, therefore, provide the basis for a reversal.  Cf.  Estelle v. Williams, 425 U.S. 501, 506-513. Although the Court's appraisal is not unreasonable, for this was by no means a perfect trial, I do not believe that constitutional error was committed. Accordingly, I respectfully dissent.
