OPINION
MR. JUSTICE STEVENS delivered the opinion of the Court.
The United States Court of Appeals for the Third Circuit held that the denial of a class certification could not be appealed immediately under 28 U. S. C. § 1292 (a)(1) 1 as an order refusing an injunction. 559 F.2d 209. Because there is a conflict among the Circuits on the question whether § 1292 (a)(1) authorizes such an appeal, 2   we granted certiorari.  434 U.S. 984. We affirm.
Petitioner unsuccessfully applied for employment as a radio talk-show host at a   station owned by respondent.  She then brought this civil rights action on behalf of herself and other females adversely affected by respondent's alleged practice of discriminating against women.  The class she sought to represent included respondent's past, present, and future female employees; unsuccessful female applicants; females deterred by respondent's reputation from applying for employment; and females who will not in the future be considered for employment by respondent on account of their sex.  Her complaint prayed for equitable relief for the entire class. 3
Petitioner moved for a class certification pursuant to Fed. Rule Civ. Proc. 23 (b). 4 The District Court denied the motion on the grounds that petitioner's claim was not typical and that the case did not present questions of law or fact common to the class.  She immediately appealed, invoking the jurisdiction of the Court of Appeals under § 1292 (a)(1). 5
Petitioner argues that the relief that could be granted in favor of the class if she prevails would be broader than the relief that she may obtain as an individual.  The practical effect of the denial  of class certification is, therefore, to refuse a substantial portion of the injunctive relief requested in the complaint.  Relying on our decision in General Electric Co. v. Marvel Rare Metals Co., 287 U.S. 430, petitioner then argues that this sort of effect on a request for injunctive relief establishes appealability under § 1292 (a)(1).  We cannot agree; indeed the argument misconceives both the scope of § 1292 (a)(1) and the import of decisions such as General Electric.
The history of § 1292 (a)(1), which we reviewed in Baltimore Contractors v. Bodinger, 348 U.S. 176, 178-181, need not be repeated.  It is sufficient to note that   the statute creates an exception from the long-established policy against piecemeal appeals, which this Court is not authorized to enlarge or extend.  The exception is a narrow one and is keyed to the "need to permit litigants to effectually challenge interlocutory orders of serious, perhaps irreparable, consequence." Id., at 181.
The order denying class certification in this case did not have any such "irreparable" effect.  It could be reviewed both prior to and after  final judgment; 6 it did not affect the merits of petitioner's own claim; and it did not pass on the legal sufficiency of any claims for injunctive relief. 7 This stands in sharp contrast to the order in General Electric. 8 In that case the Court held that an order dismissing a counterclaim for an injunction was appealable. The order, therefore, entirely disposed of the defendant's prayer for injunctive relief; here, the order merely limits the scope of the relief that may ultimately be granted.  While it may have a significant effect on the litigation, " interlocutory orders are equally important, . . . but they are not for that reason converted into injunctions." Morgantown v. Royal Insurance Co., 337 U.S. 254, 258.
As we stated in Switzerland Cheese Assn., Inc. v. E. Horne's Market, Inc., 385 U.S. 23, 24,  "we approach this statute  somewhat gingerly lest a floodgate be opened that brings into the exception many pretrial orders." The exception does not embrace orders that have no direct or irreparable impact on the merits of the controversy.  The order in this case, like the order in Switzerland Cheese, had no such impact; it "in no way  on the merits of the claim but only  to pretrial procedures . . . ." Id., at 25.9 A holding that such an order falls within § 1292 (a)(1) would compromise "the integrity of the congressional policy against piecemeal appeals." 385 U.S., at 25.
The judgment is affirmed.
It is so ordered.
