OPINION
Petitioners, the judges of the Court of Common Pleas of Hamilton County, Ohio, and the Hamilton County prosecutor, seek relief from a decision of the United States Court of Appeals for the Sixth Circuit.  The Court of Appeals upheld a Federal District Court injunction that forbids further prosecution of respondents Larry Flynt and Hustler Magazine, Inc., until respondents Herald Fahringer and Paul Cambria are tendered a hearing on their applications to appear pro hac vice in the Court of Common Pleas on behalf of Flynt and Hustler Magazine.  Petitioners contend that the asserted right of an out-of-state lawyer to appear pro hac vice in an Ohio court does not fall among those interests protected by the Due Process Clause of the Fourteenth Amendment. Because we agree with this contention, we grant the petition for certiorari and reverse the judgment of the Sixth Circuit. 1
Flynt and Hustler Magazine were indicted on February 8, 1977, for multiple violations of Ohio Rev. Code Ann. ยง 2907.31 (1975), which prohibits the dissemination of harmful material to minors.  At the arraignment on February 25, local counsel for Flynt and Hustler presented an entry of counsel form that listed Fahringer and Cambria as counsel for both defendants.  Neither lawyer was admitted to practice law in Ohio. 2 The form was the one used by members of the Ohio Bar, and it neither constituted an application for admission pro hac vice nor alerted the court that Fahringer and Cambria were not admitted to practice in Ohio.  The judge presiding at the arraignment routinely endorsed the form but took no other action with respect to the two out-of-state lawyers. 3
The case was transferred as a matter of course to Judge Morrissey, who had before him another active indictment against Flynt and Hustler Magazine.  Fahringer and Cambria made no application for admission pro hac vice to him or any other judge.  At a pretrial conference on March 9 Judge Morrissey advised local counsel that neither out-of-state lawyer would be allowed to represent Flynt or Hustler Magazine.  Fahringer and Cambria appeared in person before Judge Morrissey for the first time at a motions   hearing on April 8, where they expressed their interest in representing the defendants.  Judge Morrissey summarily dismissed the request.  Respondents then commenced a mandamus action in the Ohio Supreme Court seeking to overturn the denial of admission.  They also filed an affidavit of bias and prejudice seeking to remove Judge Morrissey from the case.  The Ohio court dismissed the mandamus action but did remove Judge Morrissey, stating that while it found no evidence of bias or prejudice, trial before a different judge would avoid even the appearance of impropriety.  The new trial judge ruled that the Ohio Supreme Court's dismissal of the mandamus action bound him to deny Fahringer and Cambria permission to represent Flynt and Hustler Magazine, but he did allow both of them to work with in-state counsel in preparing the case.
Respondents next filed this suit in the United States District Court for the Southern District of Ohio to enjoin further prosecution of the criminal case until the state trial court held a hearing on the contested pro hac vice application.  The court ruled that the lawyers' interest in representing Flynt and Hustler Magazine was a constitutionally protected property right which petitioners had infringed without according the lawyers procedural due process. 434 F.Supp. 481 (1977). Further prosecution of Flynt and Hustler Magazine therefore was enjoined until petitioners tendered Fahringer and Cambria the requested hearing.  The Sixth Circuit affirmed, holding that the lawyers could not be denied the privilege of appearing pro hac vice "without a meaningful hearing, the application of a reasonably clear legal standard and the statement of a rational basis for exclusion." 574 F.2d 874, 879 (1978).
As this Court has observed on numerous occasions,   the Constitution does not create property interests.  Rather it extends various procedural safeguards to certain interests "that stem from an independent source such as state law." Board of Regents v. Roth, 408 U.S. 564, 577 (1972); see Memphis Light, Gas & Water Div. v. Craft, 436 U.S. 1, 9 (1978); Bishop v. Wood, 426 U.S. 341, 344 (1976); Paul v. Davis, 424 U.S. 693, 709-710 (1976); Goss v. Lopez, 419 U.S. 565, 572-574 (1975); Perry v. Sindermann, 408 U.S. 593, 602 n. 7 (1972). The Court of Appeals evidently believed that an out-of-state lawyer's interest in appearing pro hac vice in an Ohio court stems from some such independent source. It cited no state-law authority for this proposition, however, and indeed noted that "Ohio has no specific standards regarding pro hac vice admissions. . . ." 574 F.2d, at 879. Rather the court referred to the prevalence of pro hac vice practice in American courts and instances in our history where counsel appearing pro hac vice have rendered distinguished service.  We do not question that   the practice of courts in most States is to allow an out-of-state lawyer the privilege of appearing upon motion, especially when he is associated with a member of the local bar.  In view of the high mobility of the bar, and also the trend toward specialization, perhaps this is a practice to be encouraged.  But it is not a right granted either by statute or the Constitution.  Since the founding of the Republic, the licensing and regulation of lawyers has been left exclusively to the States and the District of Columbia within their respective jurisdictions.  The States prescribe the qualifications for admission to practice and the standards of professional conduct.  They also are responsible for the discipline of lawyers. 4
A claim of entitlement under state law, to be enforceable, must be derived from statute or legal rule or through a mutually explicit understanding.  See Perry, supra, at 601-602.The record here is devoid of any indication that an out-of-state lawyer may claim such an entitlement in Ohio, where the rules of the Ohio Supreme Court expressly consign the authority to approve a pro hac vice appearance to the discretion of the trial court.  N. 2, supra.  Even if, as the Court of Appeals believed, respondents Fahringer and Cambria had "reasonable expectations of professional service," 574 F.2d, at 879, they have not shown the requisite mutual understanding that they would be permitted to represent their clients in any particular case in the Ohio courts.  The speculative claim that Fahringer's and Cambria's reputation might suffer as the result of the denial of their asserted right cannot by itself make out an injury to a constitutionally protected interest. There simply was no deprivation here of some right previously held under state law. Id., at 708-709.
Nor is there a basis for the argument that the interest in appearingpro hac vice has its source in federal law. See Paul v. Davis, supra, at 699-701.  There is no right of federal origin that permits such lawyers to appear in state courts without meeting that State's bar admission requirements.  This Court, on several occasions, has sustained state bar rules that excluded out-of-state counsel from practice altogether or on a case-by-case basis.  See Norfolk & Western R. Co. v. Beatty, 423 U.S. 1009 (1975), summarily aff'g 400 F.Supp. 234 (SD Ill.); Brown v. Supreme Court of Virginia, 414 U.S. 1034 (1973), summarily aff'g 359 F.Supp. 549 (ED Va.).  Cf.  Hicks v. Miranda, 422 U.S. 332, 343-345 (1975). These decisions recognize that the Constitution does not require that because a lawyer has been admitted to the bar of one State, he or she must be allowed to practice in another.  See Ginsburg v. Kovrak, 392 Pa. 143, 139 A. 2d 889, appeal dismissed for want of substantial federal question, 358 U.S. 52 (1958). Accordingly, because Fahringer and Cambria did not possess a cognizable property interest within the terms of the Fourteenth Amendment, the Constitution does not obligate the Ohio courts to accord them procedural due process in passing on their application for permission to appear pro hac vice before the Court of Common Pleas of Hamilton County. 5
The petition for writ of certiorari is granted, the judgment of the Sixth Circuit is reversed, and the case is remanded for further proceedings consistent with this opinion.
It is so ordered.
MR. JUSTICE WHITE would grant certiorari and set the case for oral argument.
DISSENT BY: STEVENS
MR. JUSTICE STEVENS, with whom MR. JUSTICE BRENNAN and MR. JUSTICE MARSHALL join, dissenting.
A lawyer's interest in pursuing his calling is protected by the Due Process Clause of the Fourteenth Amendment. 1 The question presented by this case is whether a lawyer abandons that protection when he crosses the border of the State which issued his license to practice.
The Court holds that a lawyer has no constitutionally protected interest in his out-of-state practice.  In its view, the interest of the lawyer is so trivial that a judge has no obligation to  give any consideration whatsoever to the merits of a pro hac vice request, or to give the lawyer any opportunity to advance reasons in support of his application.  The Court's square holding is that the Due Process Clause of the Fourteenth Amendment simply does not apply to this kind of ruling by a state trial judge. 2
The premises for this holding can be briefly stated.  A nonresident lawyer has no right, as a matter of either state or federal law, to appear in an Ohio court.  Absent any such enforceable entitlement, based on an explicit rule or mutual understanding, the lawyer's interest in making a pro hac vice appearance is a mere "privilege" that Ohio may grant or withhold in the unrestrained discretion of individual judges.  The conclusion that a lawyer has no constitutional protection against a capricious exclusion 3 seems so obvious to the majority that argument of the question is unnecessary.  Summary reversal is the order of the day.
A few years ago the Court repudiated a similar syllogism which had long supported the conclusion that a parolee has no constitutionally protected interest in his status. 4 Accepting the premise that the parolee has no "right" to preserve his contingent liberty, the Court nevertheless concluded that the nature of his status, coupled with the State's "implicit promise" that it would not be revoked arbitrarily, was sufficient to require   constitutional protection. Morrissey v. Brewer, 408 U.S. 471, 481-482. 5 As the Court observed, it "is hardly useful any longer to try to deal with this problem in terms of whether the parolee's liberty is a 'right' or a 'privilege.'" Id., at 482. In my judgment, it is equally futile to try to deal with the problem presented by this case in terms of whether the out-of-state pursuit of a lawyer's calling is based on an "explicit, " or an "enforceable" "entitlement" rather than a so-called "privilege." Instead, we should examine the nature of the activity and the implicit promise Ohio has made to these petitioners.
I
The notion that a state trial judge has arbitrary and unlimited power to refuse a nonresident lawyer permission to appear in his courtroom is nothing but a remnant of a bygone era.  Like the body of rules that once governed parole, the nature of law practice has undergone a metamorphosis during the past century.  Work that was once the exclusive province of the lawyer is now performed by title companies, real estate brokers, corporate trust departments, and accountants.  Rules of ethics that once insulated the local lawyer from competition are now forbidden by the Sherman Act 6 and by the First Amendment to the Constitution of the United States. 7 Interstate law practice and multistate law firms are now commonplace. 8 Federal questions regularly arise in state criminal trials and permeate the typical lawyer's practice.  Because the assertion of federal claims or defenses is often unpopular, "advice and assistance by an out-of-state lawyer may be the only means available for vindication." 9 The "increased specialization and high mobility" 10   of today's Bar is a consequence of the dramatic change in the demand for legal services that has occurred during the past century.
History attests to the importance of pro hac vice appearances. As Judge Merritt, writing for the Court of Appeals, explained:
"Nonresident lawyers have appeared in many of our most celebrated cases.  For example, Andrew Hamilton, a leader of the Philadelphia bar, defended John   Peter Zenger in New York in 1735 in colonial America's most famous freedom-of-speech case.  Clarence Darrow appeared in many states to plead the cause of an unpopular client, including the famous Scopes trial in Tennessee where he opposed another well-known, out-of-state lawyer, William Jennings Bryan.  Great lawyers from Alexander Hamilton and Daniel Webster to Charles Evans Hughes and John W. Davis were specially admitted for the trial of important cases in other states.  A small group of lawyers appearing pro hac vice inspired and initiated the civil rights movement in its early stages.  In a series of cases brought in courts throughout the South, out-of-state lawyers Thurgood Marshall, Constance Motley and Spottswood Robinson, before their appointments to the federal bench, developed the legal principles which gave rise to the civil rights movement.
"There are a number of reasons for this tradition.  'The demands of business and the mobility of our society' are the reasons given by the American Bar Association in Canon 3 of the Code of Professional Responsibility.  That Canon discourages 'territorial limitations' on the practice of law, including trial practice.  There are other reasons in addition to business reasons.  A client may want a particular lawyer for a particular kind of case, and a lawyer may want to take the case because of the skill required.  Often, as in the case of Andrew Hamilton, Darrow, Bryan and Thurgood Marshall, a lawyer participates in a case out of a sense of justice.  He may feel a sense of duty to defend an unpopular defendant and in this way to give expression to his own moral sense. These are important values, both for lawyers and clients, and should not be denied arbitrarily." 574 F.2d 874, 878-879 (CA6 1978) (footnotes omitted). 11
The modern examples identified by Judge Merritt, though more illustrious than the typical pro hac vice appearance, are not rare exceptions to a general custom of excluding nonresident lawyers from local practice.  On the contrary, appearances by out-of-state counsel have been routine throughout the country for at least a quarter of a century. 12 The custom is so well recognized that, as Judge Friendly observed in 1966, there "is not the slightest reason to suppose" that a qualified lawyer's pro hac vice request will be denied. 13
This case involves a pro hac vice application by qualified legal specialists; 14 no legitimate reason for denying their request is suggested by the   record. 15 They had been retained to defend an unpopular litigant in a trial that might be affected by local prejudices and attitudes. 16 It is the classic situation in which the interests of justice would be served by allowing the defendant to be represented by counsel of his choice.
The interest these lawyers seek to vindicate is not merely the pecuniary goal that motivates every individual's attempt to pursue his calling. 17 It is the profession's interest in discharging its responsibility for the fair administration of justice in our adversary system.  The nature of that interest is surely worthy of the protection afforded by the Due Process Clause of the Fourteenth Amendment.
II
In the past, Ohio has implicitly assured out-of-state practitioners that they are welcome in Ohio's courts unless there is a valid, articulable reason for excluding them.  Although the Ohio Supreme Court dismissed respondents' petition for an extraordinary writ of mandamus in this case, it has not dispelled that assurance because it did not purport to pass on the merits of their claim. 18   In my opinion the State's assurance is adequate to create an interest that qualifies as "property" within the meaning of the Due Process Clause.
The District Court found as a fact that Ohio trial judges routinely permit out-of-state counsel to appear pro hac vice. 19 This regular practice is conducted pursuant to the Rules of the Supreme Court of Ohio, 20 Ohio's Code of Professional Responsibility, 21 rules of each local court, 22 and a leading opinion of the Ohio Court of Appeals identifying criteria that should inform a trial judge's discretion in acting on pro hac vice applications. 23 While it is unquestionably true that an Ohio trial judge has broad discretion in determining whether or not to allow nonresident lawyers to appear in his court, it is also true that the Ohio rules, precedents, and practice give out-of-state lawyers an unequivocal expectation that the exercise of that discretion will be based on permissible reasons. 24
In State v. Ross, 36 Ohio App. 2d 185, 304 N. E. 2d 396 (1973), the leading Ohio case in this area, the Ohio Court of Appeals entertained an appeal from a trial judge's order denying an out-of-state attorney's pro hac vice application.  The appellate court exhaustively inquired into the basis for the trial court's action and identified the specific misdeeds of the attorney that justified his exclusion, before concluding that the trial judge had acted properly. 25 The only inference that can be drawn from that opinion is that an arbitrary ruling by the trial judge would have constituted reversible error; in this area of Ohio law, at least, the authority to exercise discretion does not include the power to act arbitrarily. 26 Having made this implicit promise to respondent attorneys, 27 Ohio may not nullify the   substance of that promise by providing no procedures to safeguard its meaning.  A state requirement that a judge's action in a contested matter be predicated on a permissible reason inevitably gives rise to a procedural requirement that the affected litigants have some opportunity to reason with the judge.  See Arnett v. Kennedy, 416 U.S. 134, 167 (POWELL, J., concurring in part). 28
III
Either the "nature" of the interest in pro hac vice admissions or the "implicit promise" inhering in Ohio custom with respect to those admissions is sufficient to create an interest protected by the Due Process Clause.  Moreover, each of these conclusions reinforces the other.
The mode of analysis employed by the Court in recent years has treated the Fourteenth Amendment concepts of "liberty" and "property" as though they defined mutually exclusive, and closed categories of interests, with neither shedding any light on the meaning of the other.  Indeed, in some of the Court's recent opinions it has implied that not only property but liberty itself does not exist apart from specific state authorization or an express guarantee in   the Bill of Rights. 29 In my judgment this is not the way the majestic language of the Fourteenth Amendment should be read.
As is demonstrated by cases like Meyer v. Nebraska, 262 U.S. 390, 399; Morrissey v. Brewer, 408 U.S. 471; Bell v. Burson, 402 U.S. 535, 539, and Mr. Justice Frankfurter's classic concurring opinion in Joint Anti-Fascist Refugee Committee v. McGrath, 341 U.S. 123, 162, judicial construction of the words "life, liberty, or property" is not simply a matter of applying the precepts of logic to accepted premises.  Rather, it is experience and judgment that have breathed life into the Court's process of constitutional adjudication.  It is not only Ohio's experience with out-of-state practitioners, but that of the entire Nation as well, that compels the judgment that no State may arbitrarily reject a lawyer's legitimate attempt to pursue this aspect of his calling.
IV
It is ironic that this litigation should end as it began -- with a judicial ruling on the merits before the parties have been heard on the merits.  Pursuant to Rules 19, 23, and 24 of this Court, the only issue discussed in the petition for certiorari and in respondents' brief memorandum in reply is whether "a Writ of Certiorari should issue to review the judgment and opinion of the   Sixth Circuit in this matter." Pet. for Cert. 19.  This surely is not a case that should be decided before respondents have been given an opportunity to address the merits.  Summary reversal "should be reserved for palpably clear cases of . . . error." Eaton v. Tulsa, 415 U.S. 697, 707 (REHNQUIST, J., dissenting).  Such reversals are egregiously improvident when the Court is facing a "novel constitutional question." Pennsylvania v. Mimms, 434 U.S. 106, 124 (STEVENS, J., dissenting). 30 Accordingly, I respectfully dissent from the Court's summary disposition of a question of great importance to the administration of justice.
