OPINION
MR. JUSTICE WHITE delivered the opinion of the Court.
Under the New Jersey homicide statutes, 1 some murders are of the first degree; the rest are of the second degree. Juries   rendering guilty murder verdicts are to designate whether the murder was a first- or second-degree crime.  The mandatory punishment, to be imposed by the judge, for those convicted by a jury of first-degree murder is life imprisonment; 2 second-degree murder is punished by a term of not more than 30 years.  Trials to the court in murder cases are not permitted, and guilty pleas to murder indictments are forbidden.  Pleas of non vult or nolo contendere, however, are allowed.  "If such plea be accepted," the punishment "shall be either imprisonment for life or the same as that imposed upon a conviction of murder in the second degree." 3 The judge entertaining the plea determines that there is a factual basis for conviction but need not decide whether the murder is first or second degree.
Appellant Corbitt, after pleading not guilty to a murder indictment, was convicted of committing murder in the course of an arson -- a felony murder and one of the first-degree homicides. 4 He was sentenced to the mandatory punishment of life imprisonment. His conviction and sentence were affirmed by the New Jersey appellate courts.  The New Jersey Supreme Court rejected his contention that because defendants pleading non vult could be sentenced to a lesser term, the mandatory life sentence following a first-degree murder verdict was an unconstitutional burden upon his right to a jury trial under the Sixth and Fourteenth Amendments and upon his right against compelled self-incrimination under the Fifth and Fourteenth Amendments, as well as a violation of his right to equal protection of the laws under the Fourteenth Amendment.  74 N. J. 379, 378 A. 2d 235 (1977). We noted probable jurisdiction. 434 U.S. 1060 (1978).
Appellant's principal reliance is upon United States v. Jackson, 390 U.S. 570 (1968). There, this Court held that the death sentence provided by the Federal Kidnaping Act was invalid because it could be imposed only upon the recommendation of a jury accompanying a guilty verdict, whereas the maximum penalty for those tried to the court after waiving a jury and for those pleading guilty was life imprisonment. Only those insisting on a jury trial faced the possibility of a death penalty. These provisions were held to be a needless encouragement to plead guilty or to waive a jury trial, and the death penalty was consequently declared unconstitutional.
We agree with the New Jersey Supreme Court that there are substantial differences between this case and Jackson, and that Jackson does not require a reversal of Corbitt's conviction.  The principal difference is that the pressures to forgo trial and to plead to the charge in this case are not what they were in Jackson.  First, the death penalty, which is "unique in its severity and irrevocability," Gregg v. Georgia, 428 U.S. 153, 187 (1976), is not involved here.  Although we need not agree with the New Jersey court that the Jackson rationale is limited to those cases where a plea avoids any possibility of the death penalty's being imposed, it is a material fact that under the New Jersey law the maximum penalty for murder is life imprisonment, not death. Furthermore, in Jackson, any risk of suffering the maximum penalty could be avoided by pleading guilty.  Here, although the punishment when a jury finds a defendant guilty of first-degree murder is life imprisonment, 5 the risk of that punishment is not completely avoided by pleading non vult because the judge accepting the plea has the authority to impose a life term.  New Jersey does not reserve the maximum punishment for murder for those who insist on a jury trial.
It is nevertheless true that while life imprisonment is the mandatory punishment for a defendant against whom a jury has returned a first-degree murder verdict, a judge accepting a non vult plea does not classify the murder 6 and may impose either life imprisonment or a term of up to 30 years.  The defendant who wishes to avoid the certainty of life imprisonment if he is tried and found guilty by the jury of first-degree murder, may seek to do so by tendering a non vult plea.  Although there is no assurance that he will be so favored, the judge does have the power to accept the plea and to sentence him to a lesser term. 7 It is Corbitt's submission that the possibility of a sentence of less than life upon the plea of non vult, combined with the absence of a similar possibility when found guilty by a jury, is an unconstitutional burden on his federal rights under the Fifth, Sixth, and Fourteenth Amendments.
As did the New Jersey Supreme Court, we disagree.  The cases in this Court since Jackson have clearly established that   not every burden on the exercise of a constitutional right, and not every pressure or encouragement to waive such a right, is invalid. 8 Specifically, there is no per se rule against encouraging   guilty pleas. We have squarely held that a State may encourage a guilty plea by offering substantial benefits in return for the plea. 9 The plea may   obtain for the defendant "the possibility or certainty . . .  a lesser penalty than the sentence that could be imposed after a trial and a verdict of guilty . . . ," Brady v. United States, 397 U.S. 742, 751 (1970), but also of a lesser penalty than that required to be imposed after a guilty verdict by a jury.  In Bordenkircher v. Hayes, 434 U.S. 357 (1978), the defendant went to trial on an indictment charging him as a habitual criminal, for which the mandatory punishment was life imprisonment. The prosecutor, however, had been willing to accept a plea of guilty to a lesser charge carrying a shorter sentence. The defendant chose to go to trial, was convicted, and was sentenced to life.  We affirmed the conviction, holding that the State, through the prosecutor, had not violated the Constitution since it "no more than openly presented the defendant with the unpleasant alternatives of forgoing trial or facing charges on which he was plainly subject to prosecution." Id., at 365. Relying upon and quoting from Chaffin v. Stynchcombe, 412 U.S. 17 (1973), we also said:
"While confronting a defendant with the risk of more severe punishment clearly may have a 'discouraging effect on the defendant's assertion of his trial rights, the imposition of these difficult choices  an inevitable' -- and permissible -- 'attribute of any legitimate system which tolerates and encourages the negotiation of pleas.' Chaffin v. Stynchcombe, supra, at 31. It follows that, by tolerating and encouraging the negotiation of pleas, this Court has necessarily accepted as constitutionally legitimate the simple reality that the prosecutor's interest at the bargaining table is to persuade the defendant to forgo his right to plead not guilty." 434 U.S., at 364.
There is no difference of constitutional significance between Bordenkircher and this case. 10 There, as here, the defendant went to trial on an indictment that included a count carrying a mandatory life term under the applicable state statutes.  There, as here, the defendant could have sought to counter the mandatory penalty by tendering a plea.  In Bordenkircher, as permitted by state law, the prosecutor was willing to forgo the habitual criminal count if there was a plea, in which event the mandatory   sentence would have been avoided.  Here, the state law empowered the judge to impose a lesser term either in connection with a plea bargain or otherwise.  In both cases, the defendant gave up the possibility of leniency if he went to trial and was convicted on the count carrying the mandatory penalty. In Bordenkircher, the probability or certainty of leniency in return for a plea did not invalidate the mandatory penalty imposed after a jury trial. It should not do so here, where there was no assurance that a plea would be accepted if tendered and, if it had been, no assurance that a sentence less than life would be imposed.  Those matters rested  ultimately in the discretion of the judge,   perhaps substantially influenced by the prosecutor and the plea-bargaining process permitted by New Jersey law. 11
Bordenkircher, like other cases here, unequivocally recognized the State's legitimate interest in encouraging the entry of guilty pleas and in facilitating plea bargaining, a process mutually beneficial to both the defendant and the State. 12 In pursuit of this interest, New Jersey has provided that the judge may, but need not, accept pleas of non vult and that he may impose life or the specified term of years.  This not only provides for discretion in the trial judge but also sets the limits within which plea bargaining on punishment may take place.  The New Jersey Supreme Court observed that the "encouragement of guilty defendants not to contest their guilt is at the very heart of an effective plea negotiation program." 74 N. J., at 396, 378 A. 2d, at 243-244. Its conclusion was that in this light there were substantial benefits to the State in providing the opportunity for lesser punishment and that the statutory pattern could not be deemed a needless or arbitrary burden on the defendant's constitutional rights within the meaning of United States v. Jackson.
We are in essential agreement with the New Jersey Supreme Court.  Had Corbitt tendered a plea and had it been accepted and a term of years   less than life imposed, this would simply have recognized the fact that there had been a plea and that in sentencing it is constitutionally permissible to take that fact into account.  The States and the Federal Government are free to abolish guilty pleas and plea bargaining; but absent such action, as the Constitution has been construed in our cases, it is not forbidden to extend a proper degree of leniency in return for guilty pleas. New Jersey has done no more than that.
We discern no element of retaliation or vindictiveness against Corbitt for going to trial.  There is no suggestion that he was subjected to unwarranted charges.  Nor does this record indicate that he was being punished for exercising a constitutional right. 13 Indeed, insofar as this record reveals, Corbitt may have tendered a plea and it was refused.  There is no doubt that those homicide defendants who are willing to plead non vult may be treated more leniently than those who go to trial, but withholding the possibility of leniency from the latter cannot be equated with impermissible punishment as long as our cases sustaining plea bargaining remain undisturbed. Those cases, as we have said, unequivocally recognize the constitutional propriety of extending leniency in exchange for a plea of guilty and of not extending leniency to those who have not demonstrated those attributes on which leniency is based. 14
Finally, we are unconvinced that the New Jersey statutory pattern exerts such a powerful influence to coerce inaccurate pleas non vult that it should be deemed constitutionally suspect.  There is no suggestion here that Corbitt was not well counseled or that he misunderstood the choices that were placed before him.  Here, as in Bordenkircher, the State did not trespass on the defendant's rights "so long as the accused  free to accept or reject" the choice presented to him by the State, 434 U.S., at 363, that is, to go to trial and face the risk of life imprisonment or to seek acceptance of a non vult plea and the imposition of the lesser penalty authorized by law. 15
Appellant also argues that the sentencing scheme infringes his right to equal protection under the Fourteenth Amendment because it penalizes the exercise of a "fundamental right." We rejected a similar argument in North Carolina v. Pearce, 395 U.S. 711 (1969), noting that " fit the problem . . . into an equal protection framework is a task too Procrustean to be rationally accomplished." Id., at 723. All New Jersey defendants are given the same choice.  Those electing to contest their guilt face a certainty of life imprisonment if convicted of first-degree murder; but they may be acquitted instead or, in a proper case, may be convicted of a lesser degree of homicide and receive a sentence of less than life.  Furthermore, a plea of non vult may itself result in a life sentence. The result, therefore,
"may depend upon a particular combination of infinite variables peculiar to each individual trial.  It simply cannot be said that a state has invidiously 'classified' . . . ." Id., at 722.
It cannot be said that defendants found guilty by a jury are "penalized" for exercising the right to  a jury trial any more than defendants who plead guilty are penalized because they give up the chance of acquittal at trial.  In each instance, the defendant faces a multitude of possible outcomes and freely makes his choice.  Equal protection does not free those who made a bad assessment of risks or a bad choice from the consequences of their decision.  The judgment of the Supreme Court of New Jersey is affirmed.
It is so ordered.
<concur author="STEWART" text="TRUE">
CONCUR BY: STEWART
MR. JUSTICE STEWART, concurring in the judgment.
I agree with the Court that United States v. Jackson, 390 U.S. 570, is not controlling in this case.  In the Jackson case, a convicted defendant could be sentenced to death if he had requested a jury trial but could be sentenced to no more than a life sentence if he either had pleaded guilty or had pleaded not guilty and waived a jury trial. Under these circumstances, the Court held that this part of the federal statute was unconstitutional because it " an impermissible burden upon the exercise of a constitutional right." Id., at 572.
Under the New Jersey statutory scheme, by contrast, no such impermissible burden is present.  Unlike the statute at issue in the Jackson case, the death penalty is not involved here, and a convicted defendant can be sentenced to the maximum penalty of life imprisonment whether he pleads non vult or goes to trial. Moreover, although in New Jersey a defendant pleads non vult to a general indictment of murder, he can be sentenced to the maximum sentence even though the underlying facts would have supported no more than a second-degree murder conviction if the defendant had gone to trial and been found guilty by a jury. Since the latter offense cannot be punished by life imprisonment, a defendant who is guilty of second-degree murder is subject to a greater penalty if he pleads non vult that if he pleads not guilty and is convicted of that offense after a jury trial. Finally, a defendant who pleads not guilty and goes to trial can be convicted of a lesser included offense or acquitted even though in fact he is guilty of first- or second-degree murder or manslaughter.  It is, therefore, impossible to state with any confidence that the New Jersey statute does in fact penalize a defendant's decision to plead not guilty. *
I cannot agree with the statement of the Court, however, that " is no difference of constitutional significance between Bordenkircher and this case." Ante, at 221.  Bordenkircher v. Hayes, 434 U.S. 357, involved plea negotiations between the attorney for the prosecution and the attorney for the defense in the context of an adversary system of criminal justice.  It seems to me that there is a vast difference between the settlement of litigation through negotiation between counsel for the parties, and a state statute such as is involved in the present case.  While a prosecuting attorney, acting as an advocate, necessarily must be able to settle an adversary criminal lawsuit through plea bargaining with his adversary, a state legislature has a quite different function to perform.  Could a state legislature provide that the penalty for every criminal offense to which a defendant pleads guilty is to be one-half the penalty to be imposed upon a defendant convicted of the same offense after a not-guilty plea?  I would suppose that such legislation would be clearly unconstitutional under United States v. Jackson.  Since the reasoning of part   of the Court's opinion suggests otherwise, I concur only in the judgment.
<dissent author="STEVENS" text="TRUE">
DISSENT BY: STEVENS
MR. JUSTICE STEVENS, with whom MR. JUSTICE BRENNAN and MR. JUSTICE MARSHALL join, dissenting.
The concept of a "false" not-guilty plea has no place in our jurisprudence. 1 A defendant has a constitutional right to require the State to support its accusation with evidence. 2 He is therefore given an unqualified right -- before trial when he retains the presumption of innocence -- to plead not guilty. 3 Because the entry of such a plea cannot at once be criminally punishable and constitutionally protected, a statute that has no other purpose or effect than to penalize assertion of the right not to plead guilty is "patently unconstitutional." The Court so held in United States v. Jackson, 390 U.S. 570, 581, and that holding is dispositive of this case. 4
Today, however, the Court decides that a defendant who has been convicted after a full trial may be punished not only for the crime charged in the indictment but additionally for entering a "false" plea of not guilty.  The holding in Jackson, though not specifically overruled, has been divorced from the rationale on which it rested.
New Jersey does not seriously contend that ยง 2A:113-3 has any purpose or effect other than to penalize assertion of the right not to plead guilty. Its argument that the statute is justified by a valid state interest in conserving scarce prosecutorial resources is simply a restatement of the obvious purpose of the law to motivate defendants to plead guilty instead of exercising their expensive right to trial.  If appellee is correct in its assertion that the statute has been effective as a money-saving inducement to guilty pleas, that success is necessarily attributable to the deterrent effect of the penalty imposed on those who resist the inducement.
In its attempt to distinguish Jackson, the State argues that its statute imposes no penalty for "falsely" pleading not guilty because it provides the same maximum punishment regardless of the plea.  That argument is beside the point because the statute provides a significantly more severe standard of punishment for the defendant who exercises his constitutional rights than for the one who submits without trial.  For the former, a mandatory life sentence is prescribed whereas for the latter, life is "only the maximum in a discretionary spectrum of length" that extends downward anywhere from a term of 30 years to no term at all.  Dobbert v. Florida, 432 U.S. 282, 300. Whether viewed in light of the legislative purpose in enacting the statute or in light of its impact on the defendant's choice of how to plead, this difference in punitive standards has the same "onerous" effect as if the maximum, as well as the minimum, penalty differed. 5 Just as in Jackson, the statute subjects the defendant who stands trial to a substantial risk of greater punishment   than the defendant who pleads guilty. 6
Nor is this statutory scheme the equivalent of a plea bargain negotiated between defense counsel and the prosecutor. While such bargains serve a state interest in common with ยง 2A:113-3, they do so without penalizing the defendant's assertion of his legal rights.  In the bargaining process, individual   factors relevant to the particular case may be considered by the prosecutor in charging and by the trial judge in sentencing, regardless of the defendant's plea; 7 the process does not mandate a different standard of punishment depending solely on whether or not a plea is entered. 8
Of even greater importance is the fact that a defendant who refuses a plea bargain will not be punished for his constitutionally protected recalcitrance; whatever punishment he receives will be for his conduct in committing the offense or offenses the State has proved at trial. 9 In contrast, a defendant who faces a more severe range of statutory penalties simply because he has insisted on a trial, is subjected to punishment not only for the crime the State has proved but also for the "offense" of entering a "false" not-guilty plea.
Because the legislature, the voice of the community in identifying   crimes and penalties, 10 has inflexibly engraved the different standard of punishment in the statute itself, New Jersey may not disavow or disparage its policy of imposing a special punishment simply because a person has done what the law plainly allows him to do.  As the Court reiterated last Term, the implementation of such a policy inevitably produces a due process violation of the most basic sort. 11
The right of the defendant to stand absolutely mute before the bar of justice and to force the government to make its case without his aid has been accepted since the earliest days of the Republic. 12 That silence, and its formal invocation by entry of a not-guilty plea, cannot retain the protection of the Fifth Amendment and be simultaneously a punishable offense.  The same act cannot be both lawful and unlawful.  That is the essence of the Court's holding in Jackson.  I respectfully dissent from its repudiation.
