OPINION
MR. JUSTICE REHNQUIST delivered the opinion of the Court.
In May 1973 William Rasmussen was employed as a hydrologist by Geo Control, Inc., which was under contract with the United States to perform work in South Vietnam.  Rasmussen was fatally injured during the course of his employment when the vehicle in which he was riding was blown up by a land mine. His employment was within the coverage of the Defense Base Act, 42 U. S. C. § 1651 et seq., which incorporates the provisions of the Longshoremen's and Harbor Workers' Compensation Act, 44 Stat. 1424, as amended, 33 U. S. C. § 901 et seq. (Act).  It is undisputed that Rasmussen's surviving widow and son, 1 respondents here, are entitled to death benefits under § 9 of the Act, 33 U. S. C. § 909; the issue dividing the parties and the Courts of Appeals 2 is whether death benefits payable under the Act are subject to the maximum limits expressly placed on disability payments by § 6 (b)(1).  The Act's language and legislative history persuade us that they are not.
I
Prior to passage of the Longshoremen's and Harbor Workers' Compensation Act Amendments of 1972, 86 Stat. 1251, both disability and death benefits payable under the Act were subject to the same minimum and maximum limitations.  Former § 6 (b) limited disability benefits to no more than $ 70 per week and no less than $ 18 per week.  Death benefits were limited under § 9 (b) to 66 2/3% of the deceased's "average weekly wages," which were "considered to have been not more than $ 105 nor less than $ 27 . . . ." 33 U. S. C. § 909 (e) (1970 ed.).   Accordingly, weekly death benefits, like disability benefits, could not exceed $ 70 nor be less than $ 18. 3 The $ 70 maximum on death and disability benefits,   established in 1961, gradually lost real value as inflation exacted its annual toll, 4 and in 1972 Congress moved to give covered workers added protection.
The basic formula for determining compensation for permanent total disability -- 66 2/3% of the employee's average weekly wages -- was left unchanged by the 1972 Amendments.  The Amendments, however, replaced the $ 70 maximum limitation on disability benefits with an entirely new limitation scheme tied to the "applicable national average weekly wage." New § 6 (b)(1) provides in pertinent part:
" for disability shall not exceed the following percentages of the applicable national average weekly wage as determined by the Secretary . . .
"(A) 125 per centum or $ 167, whichever is greater, during the period ending September 30, 1973.
"(B) 150 per centum during the period beginning October 1, 1973, and ending September 30, 1974.
"(C) 175 per centum during the period beginning October 1, 1974, and ending September 30, 1975.
"(D) 200 per centum beginning October 1, 1975." 33 U. S. C. § 906 (b)(1).
The "applicable national average weekly wage" is determined annually by the Secretary of Labor.  33 U. S. C. § 906 (b)(3).  The Senate Committee on Labor and Public Welfare estimated that approximately 90% of the disabled workers covered under the amended Act would receive benefits equal to a full 66 2/3% of their average weekly wages. S. Rep. No. 92-1125, p. 5 (1972), Legislative History of the Longshoremen's and Harbor Workers' Act Amendments of 1972 (Committee Print compiled for the Senate Committee on Labor and Public Welfare by the Subcommittee on Labor), p. 67 (1972) (hereinafter Leg. Hist.). The four-step phase-in of the section's maximum limitation from 125% to 200% of the applicable national average weekly wage was designed to ease the impact on covered employers of the increase in compensation payments, which Congress expected to at least double for most covered workers.  Ibid.
Section 9 (b) was amended in 1972 to increase death benefits to surviving spouses from 35% to 50% of the deceased's average weekly wages. Death benefits to surviving children were increased from 15% to 16 2/3% of the deceased's average weekly wages. Total weekly death benefits payable to survivors, however, are still limited to 66 2/3% of the deceased's average weekly wage. 33 U. S. C. § 909 (b).  The 1972 Amendments deleted the specific dollar minimum and maximum limitations on average weekly wages and substituted   in their place a provision dealing only with a minimum limitation, which was tied to the applicable national average weekly wage. Section 9 (e) now provides:
"In computing death benefits the average weekly wages of the deceased shall be considered to have been not less than the applicable national average weekly wage as prescribed in section 6 (b) but the total weekly benefits shall not exceed the average weekly wages of the deceased." 33 U. S. C. § 909 (e).
Pursuant to § 9, respondents claimed combined death benefits of $ 532 per week, two-thirds of Rasmussen's average weekly wages of $ 798.  Geo Control, its insurance carrier, and the Director of the Department of Labor's Office of Workers' Compensation Programs (OWCP), petitioners here, contended that the limitations on disability payments contained in § 6 (b)(1) of the Act -- initially $ 167 per week and now $ 396.50 per week 5 -- apply to death benefits in the same manner as to benefits for permanent total disability. 6 The   dispute was submitted to an Administrative Law Judge, who sustained respondents' position.  Petitioners appealed the adverse ruling to the Benefits Review Board, which affirmed.  The legislative history of the 1972 Amendments convinced the Board that "elimination of the maximum benefit provision from Section 9 (e) of the Act . . . was done consciously and intentionally" and that "failure to substitute a new maximum was . . . a deliberate action." App. to Pet. for Cert. in No. 77-1465,  pp. 22A-23A.  Petitioners appealed the Board's order directly to the United States Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit.  33 U. S. C. § 921 (c).  The Court of Appeals affirmed, largely adopting the reasoning of the Review Board.  We granted certiorari to resolve a conflict among the Courts of Appeals on this issue, 7 436 U.S. 955 (1978), and we now affirm the judgment of the Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit.
II
Petitioners' case for incorporating the maximum limitations on disability benefits of § 6 (b)(1) into the death benefit provisions of § 9 rests entirely on   § 6 (d), which in pertinent part provides that "determinations" made under the section "shall apply to employees or survivors . . . receiving compensation for permanent total disability or death benefits . . . ." 33 U. S. C. § 906 (d).  This subsection's references to "survivors" and "death benefits" demonstrate, according to petitioners, that Congress intended death benefits to be limited by the compensation maximums contained in § 6 (b)(1).  Anticipating the obvious question -- why did not Congress, either expressly or by reference to § 6 (b)(1), put the ceiling on death benefits back into the section of the Act dealing with death benefits -- the Director of OWCP concedes that § 9 (e) was " the most obvious place to stipulate a maximum on death benefits," but suggests that Congress merely "overlooked" this fact when amending the death benefits provisions.  Brief for Petitioner in No.  77-1465, pp. 28-29.
One need only state petitioners' argument to recognize its flaws.  They suggest, on the one hand, that Congress forgot to stipulate a maximum on death benefits when it amended § 9 (e), although that section had contained a fixed ceiling on death benefits since the Act's initial passage in 1927. 8 On the other hand, petitioners urge that Congress remembered the question of death benefit maximums while considering § 6, and rather than incorporate a death benefits ceiling in the section of the Act dealing with death benefits, Congress consciously decided to limit death benefits in the section dealing with disability compensation.
The logic of petitioners' position is further weakened by the structure of § 6 itself, for if Congress had chosen that section as the vehicle for limiting death benefits, it would have been a simple matter to add the words "and death" after the word "disability" in the opening sentence of § 6 (b)(1).  Nor does petitioners' contention deal with the fact that Congress had the collective presence of mind to include a minimum limitation on death benefits in § 9 (e). The Director maintains that the path petitioners urge us to follow, while admittedly "tortuous," ultimately leads to "what may be assumed to have been the congressional intent to avoid disparate treatment" of disability and death beneficiaries.  Brief for Petitioner in No 77-1465, pp. 11, 32.  We agree that petitioners' suggested interpretation of the Act is tortuous, and believe that it is refuted by the plain language and legislative history of the pertinent provisions of the 1972 Amendments.
A
The language of § 9 (e) is unambiguous: the average weekly wages on which death benefits are calculated can be no less than the applicable national average weekly wage. In amending § 9 (e), Congress replaced specific minimum and maximum limitations on average weekly wages, and hence on death benefits, with a minimum limitation governed by the applicable national average weekly wage. That the omission of a maximum limitation on death benefits was inadvertent is disproved by the legislative history of the 1972 Amendments.
In 1971 two pairs of identical bills were introduced in the 92d Congress and considered by the Senate Committee on Labor and Public Welfare and the House Committee on Education and Labor.  S. 525 and H. R. 3505 would have retained fixed dollar maximums for both disability and death benefits. 9 In contrast, S. 2318 and H. R. 12006, which ultimately formed the nucleus of the 1972 Amendments, proposed the elimination of fixed dollar ceilings on both disability and death benefits. 10
The difference in treatment of benefit maximums between the competing bills could hardly have gone unnoticed.  Senator Eagleton opened hearings on S. 2318 and S. 525 before the Subcommittee on Labor of the Committee on Labor and Public Welfare, summarizing the intent of the competing bills as follows:
"S. 2318, which I cosponsored with Senator Williams, would eliminate the maximum payment limitations. . . .
"The second bill, S. 525, introduced by the late Senator Prouty at the request of the administration, would also increase the benefits although retaining a maximum limitation." Hearings on S. 2318 et al. before the Subcommittee on Labor of the Senate Committee on Labor and Public Welfare, 92d Cong., 2d Sess., 2 (1972) (hereinafter Hearings).
Supporters of both measures vigorously debated the virtues and vices of fixed ceilings on disability and death benefit payments. 11 The provisions of S. 2318 and H. R. 12006 as    reported by their respective Committees were identical and were ultimately enacted as the Longshoremen's and Harbor Workers' Act Amendments of 1972. 12 The Committee Reports accompanying the House and Senate bills clearly reflect the Committees' understanding that the minimum and maximum limitations on death benefits of former § 9 (e) were being eliminated and that only a minimum benefit provision tied to the applicable national average weekly wage was being substituted   in their place. 13 In light of this evidence of congressional intent, we find it impossible to conclude that the absence of a fixed maximum limitation on death benefits in § 9 (e) was the result of inadvertence.
B
The benefit maximums contained in § 6 (b)(1) are plainly restricted to "compensation for disability." Petitioners argue, however, that Congress made § 6 (b)(1)'s disability benefit maximums applicable to death benefits through § 6 (d).  Close examination of the wording used by Congress in the latter provision persuades us otherwise.
Section 6 (d) provides:
"   Determinations under this subsection with respect to a period shall apply to employees or survivors currently receiving compensation for permanent total disability or death benefits during such period, as well as those newly awarded compensation during such period."
Since there are no "determinations" made under § 6 (d), its reference to "this subsection" is plainly in error.  The parties agree, and we conclude, that the words "this subsection" should read "this section." 14 The question thus becomes what "determinations . . . with respect to a period" did Congress have in mind when it enacted § 6 (d).
The operative words of the subsection, "determinations" and "period," appear together in § 6 in only one other place.  Paragraph (3) of § 6 (b) provides:
"As soon as practicable after June 30 of each year, and in any event prior to October 1 of such year, the Secretary shall determine the national average weekly wage for the three consecutive calendar quarters ending June 30.  Such determination shall be the applicable national average wage for the period beginning with October 1 of that year and ending with September 30 of the next year.  The initial determination under this paragraph shall be made as soon as practicable after ." 33 U. S. C. § 906 (b)(3).  (Emphasis added.)
Elsewhere in § 6, both minimum and maximum limits on total disability benefits are tied to the "applicable national average weekly wage as determined by the Secretary under paragraph (3) . . . ." 33 U. S. C. § 906 (b)(1); see § 906 (b)(2).  Congress' careful use of the word "determination" and its verb form strongly suggests that it intended the term to refer only to the Secretary of Labor's annual determination under § 6 (b)(3) of the national average weekly wage, not to the mathematical computation of disability benefit maximums contemplated under § 6 (b)(1).  This view of § 6 (d) is confirmed by the provision's legislative history. The Senate Committee on Labor and Public Welfare, in its section-by-section analysis of S. 2318, stated:
"Subsection (d) states that determinations of national average weekly wage made with respect to a period apply to employees or survivors currently receiving compensation for permanent total disability or death benefits, as well as those who begin receiving compensation for the first time during the period." S. Rep. No. 92-1125, p. 18 (1972), Leg. Hist. 80. 15
Because determinations of the national average weekly wage govern minimum death benefits as well as both minimum and maximum total disability benefits, § 6 (d)'s reference to "survivors . . . receiving . . . death benefits" is not surprising.  Congress intended increases in the national average weekly wage to be reflected by corresponding increases in minimum death benefits and both minimum and maximum total disability benefits. 16 See S. Rep. No. 92-1125, supra, at 5-6, Leg. Hist. 67-68 We conclude that   § 6 (d) does not render the maximum limitations contained in § 6 (b)(1) applicable to death benefits.
C
Finally, petitioners urge that, the Act's language and legislative history notwithstanding, Congress could not have intended to place a "premium on death." They cannot and do not dispute, however, that Congress did precisely that in situations in which the employee's average weekly wages are less than the applicable national average weekly wage and he is survived by a spouse and one or more children. 17 Congress    may well have retained   maximum benefit limitations in § 6 (b)(1) to discourage feigned disability, a consideration wholly inapplicable to death benefits. Nor is it inconceivable that the financial needs of the disabled worker's family could increase upon his death.  The typical disabled worker, though no longer physically able to ply his trade, might be able to contribute to the family's livelihood by assuming a variety of domestic responsibilities, thus releasing his spouse into the work force.  The disabled worker's death would under such circumstances rob the family of an economic asset.
Petitioners entreat us to interpret the 1972 Amendments "to avoid an absurd and discriminatory consequence." Even if we agreed with petitioners' characterization of Congress' failure to put a ceiling on death benefits, we would be required to decline petitioners' invitation, for our examination of the language and legislative history of the 1972 Amendments   convinces us that the omission was intentional.  Congress has put down its pen, and we can neither rewrite Congress' words nor call it back "to cancel half a Line." Our task is to interpret what Congress has said; so doing, we conclude that   death benefits payable under the Act are not subject to the maximum limitations contained in § 6 (b)(1).  The judgment of the Court of Appeals is
Affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE POWELL took no part in the consideration or decision of these cases.
