OPINION
MR. JUSTICE POWELL delivered the opinion of the Court.
Title III of the Omnibus Crime Control and Safe Streets Act of 1968 (Title III), 18 U. S. C. §§ 2510-2520, permits courts to authorize electronic surveillance 1 by Government   officers in specified situations.  We took this case by writ of   certiorari to resolve two questions concerning the implementation of Title III surveillance orders.  439 U.S. 817. First, may courts authorize electronic surveillance that requires covert entry 2 into private premises for installation of the necessary equipment?  Second, must authorization for such surveillance include a specific statement by the court that it approves of the covert entry? 3
I
On March 14, 1973,  Justice Department officials applied to the United States District Court for the District of New Jersey, seeking authorization under 18 U. S. C. § 2518 to intercept telephone conversations on two telephones in petitioner's business office.  After examining the affidavits submitted in support of the Government's request, the District Court authorized the wiretap for a period of 20 days or until the purpose of the interception was achieved, whichever came first.  The court found probable cause to believe that petitioner was a member of a conspiracy the purpose of which was to steal goods being shipped in interstate commerce in violation of 18 U. S. C. § 659. Moreover, the court found reason to believe that petitioner's business telephones were being used to further this conspiracy and that means of investigating the conspiracy   other than electronic surveillance would be unlikely to succeed and would be dangerous.  The wiretap order carefully enumerated the telephones to be affected and the types of conversations to be intercepted. Finally, the court ordered the officials in charge of the interceptions to take all reasonable precautions "to minimize the interception of  communications not otherwise subject to interception," and required the officials to make periodic progress reports.
At the end of the 20-day period covered by the March 14 court order, the Government requested an extension of the wiretap authorization. In addition, the Government for the first time asked the court to allow it to intercept all oral communications taking place in petitioner's office, including those not involving the telephone. On April 5, 1973, the court granted the Government's second request.  Its order concerning the wiretap of petitioner's telephones closely tracked the March 14 order.  Finding reasonable cause to believe that petitioner's office was being used by petitioner and others in connection with the alleged conspiracy, the court also authorized, for a maximum period of 20 days, the interception of all oral communications concerning the conspiracy at "the business office of Larry Dalia, consisting of an enclosed room, approximately fifteen (15) by eighteen (18) feet in dimension, and situated in the northwesterly corner of a one-story building housing Wrap-O-Matic Machinery Company, Ltd., and Precise Packaging, and located at 1105 West St.  George Avenue, Linden, New Jersey." The order included protective provisions similar to those in the March 14 wiretapping order. 4 The electronic surveillance order of April 5 was extended by court order on April 27, 1973.
On November 6, 1975, petitioner was indicted in a five-count indictment charging that he had been involved in a conspiracy to steal an interstate shipment of fabric. 5 At trial, the Government introduced evidence showing that petitioner had been approached in March 1973 and asked to store in his New Jersey warehouse "a load of merchandise." Although petitioner declined the request, he directed the requesting party to Higgins, an associate, with whom he agreed to share the $ 1,500 storage fee that was offered.  The merchandise stored under this contract proved to be a tractortrailer full of fabric worth $ 250,000 that three men stole on April 3, 1973, and transported to Higgins' warehouse.  Two days after the theft, FBI agents arrested Higgins and the individuals involved in the robbery.
The Government introduced into evidence at petitioner's trial various conversations intercepted pursuant to the court orders of March 14, April 5, and April 27, 1973.  Intercepted telephone conversations showed that petitioner had arranged for the storage at Higgins' warehouse and had helped negotiate the terms for that storage.  One telephone conversation that took place after Higgins' arrest made clear that petitioner had given advice to others involved in the robbery to "sit tight" and not to use the telephone. Finally, the Government introduced transcripts of conversations intercepted from petitioner's office under the April 5 bugging order.  In these conversations, petitioner had discussed with various participants in the robbery how best to proceed after their confederates had been arrested.  The unmistakable inference to be drawn from petitioner's statements in these conversations is that he was an active participant in the scheme to steal the truckload of fabric.
Before trial, petitioner moved to suppress evidence obtained through the interception of conversations by means of the device installed in his office. The District Court denied the suppression motion without prejudice to its being renewed following trial.  After petitioner was convicted on two counts, 6 he renewed his motion and the court held an evidentiary hearing concerning the method by which the electronic device had been installed.  At this hearing it was shown that, although the April 5 court order did not explicitly authorize entry of petitioner's business, the FBI agents assigned the task of implementing the order had entered petitioner's office secretly at midnight on April 5 and had spent three hours in the building installing an electronic bug in the ceiling.  All electronic surveillance of petitioner ended on May 16, 1973, at which time the agents re-entered petitioner's office and removed the bug.
In denying a second time petitioner's motion to suppress the evidence obtained from the bug, the trial court ruled that   under Title III a covert entry to install electronic eavesdropping equipment is not unlawful merely because the court approving the surveillance did not explicitly authorize such an entry.  426 F.Supp. 862 (1977). Indeed, in the court's view, "implicit in the court's order  is concomitant authorization for agents to covertly enter the premises in question and install the necessary equipment." Id., at 866. As the court concluded that the FBI agents who had installed the electronic device were executing a lawful warrant issued by the court, the sole question was whether the method they chose for execution was reasonable.  Under the circumstances, the court found the covert entry of petitioner's office to have been "the safest and most successful method of accomplishing the installation." Ibid.  Indeed, noting that petitioner himself had indicated that such a device could only have been installed through such an entry, the court observed that " most cases the only form of installing such devices is through breaking and entering. The nature of the act is such that entry must be surreptitious and must not arouse suspicion, and the installation must be done without the knowledge of the residents or occupants." Ibid.
The Court of Appeals for the Third Circuit affirmed petitioner's conviction. 575 F.2d 1344 (1978). Agreeing with the District Court, it rejected petitioner's contention that separate court authorization was necessary for the covert entry of petitioner's office, although it noted that "the more prudent or preferable approach for government agents would be to include a statement regarding the need of a surreptitious entry in a request for the interception of oral communications when a break-in is contemplated." Id., at 1346-1347.
II
Petitioner first contends that the Fourth Amendment prohibits covert entry of private premises in all cases, irrespective of the reasonableness of the entry or the approval of a court. He contends that Title III is unconstitutional insofar as it enables courts to authorize covert entries for the installation of electronic bugging devices.
In several cases this Court has implied that in some circumstances covert entry to install electronic bugging devices would be constitutionally acceptable if done pursuant to a search warrant.  Thus, for example, in Irvine v. California, 347 U.S. 128 (1954), the plurality stated that in conducting electronic surveillance, state police officers had "flagrantly, deliberately, and persistently violated the fundamental principle declared by the Fourth Amendment as a restriction on the Federal Government." Id., at 132. It emphasized that the bugging equipment was installed through a covert entry of the defendant's home "without a search warrant or other process." Ibid. (emphasis added).  Similarly, in Silverman v. United States, 365 U.S. 505, 511-512 (1961), it was noted that  " Court has never held that a federal officer may without warrant and without consent physically entrench into a man's office or home, there secretly observe or listen, and relate at the man's subsequent criminal trial what was seen or heard." (Emphasis added.) Implicit in decisions such as Silverman and Irvine has been the Court's view that covert entries are constitutional in some circumstances, at least if they are made pursuant to warrant.
Moreover, we find no basis for a constitutional rule proscribing all covert entries. It is well established that law officers constitutionally may break and enter to execute a search warrant where such entry is the only means by which the warrant effectively may be executed.  See, e. g., Payne v. United States, 508 F.2d 1391, 1394 (CA5 1975); cf.  Ker v. California, 374 U.S. 23, 28, 38 (1963); 18 U. S. C. § 3109. Petitioner nonetheless argues that covert entries are unconstitutional for their lack of notice.  This argument is frivolous, as was indicated in Katz v. United States, 389 U.S. 347, 355 n. 16 (1967), where the Court stated that "officers need not announce their purpose before conducting an otherwise  authorized search if such an announcement would provoke the escape of the suspect or the destruction of critical evidence." 7 In United States v. Donovan, 429 U.S. 413, 429 n. 19 (1977), we held that Title III provided a constitutionally adequate substitute for advance notice by requiring that once the surveillance operation is completed the authorizing judge must cause notice to be served on those subjected to surveillance. See 18 U. S. C. § 2518 (8)(d).  There is no reason why the same notice is not equally sufficient with respect to electronic surveillances   requiring covert entry.  We make explicit, therefore, what has long been implicit in our decisions dealing with this subject:   The Fourth Amendment does not prohibit per se a covert entry performed for the purpose of installing otherwise legal electronic bugging equipment. 8
III
Petitioner's second contention is that Congress has not given the courts statutory authority to approve covert entries for the purpose of installing electronic surveillance equipment, even if constitutionally it could have done so.  Petitioner emphasizes that although Title III sets forth with meticulous care the circumstances in which electronic surveillance is permitted, there is no comparable indication in the statute that covert entry ever may be ordered.  Accord, United States v. Santora, 583 F.2d 453, 457-458 (CA9 1978).
Title III does not refer explicitly to covert entry.  The language, structure, and history of the statute, however, demonstrate that Congress meant to authorize courts -- in certain specified circumstances -- to approve electronic surveillance without limitation on the means necessary to its accomplishment, so long as they are reasonable under the circumstances. Title III provides a comprehensive scheme for the regulation of electronic surveillance, prohibiting all secret interception of communications except as authorized by certain state and federal judges in response to applications from specified federal and state law enforcement officials.  See 18 U. S. C. §§ 2511, 2515, and 2518; United States v. United States District Court, 407 U.S. 297, 301-302   (1972). Although Congress was fully aware of the distinction between bugging and wiretapping, see S. Rep. No. 1097, 90th Cong., 2d Sess., 68 (1968), Title III by its terms deals with each form of surveillance in essentially the same manner.  See 18 U. S. C. §§ 2510 (1) and (2); n. 1, supra.  Orders authorizing interceptions of either wire or oral communications may be entered only after the court has made specific determinations concerning the likelihood that the interception will disclose evidence of criminal conduct.  See 18 U. S. C. § 2518 (3).  Moreover, with respect to both wiretapping and bugging, an authorizing court must specify the exact scope of the surveillance undertaken, enumerating the parties whose communications are to be overheard (if they are known), the place to be monitored, and the agency that will do the monitoring.  See 18 U. S. C. § 2518 (4).
The plain effect of the detailed restrictions of § 2518 is to guarantee that wiretapping or bugging occurs only when there is a genuine need for it and only to the extent that it is needed. 9 Once this need has been   demonstrated in accord with the requirements of § 2518, the courts have broad authority to " interception of wire or oral communications," 18 U. S. C. §§ 2516 (1), (2), subject of course to constitutional limitations. See Part II, supra. 10 Nowhere in Title III is there any indication that the authority of courts under § 2518 is to be limited to approving those methods of interception that do not require covert entry for installation of the intercepting equipment. 11
The legislative history of Title III underscores Congress' understanding that courts would authorize electronic surveillance in situations where covert entry of private premises was necessary.  Indeed, a close examination of that history reveals that Congress did not explicitly address the question of covert entries in the Act, only because it did not perceive surveillance requiring such entries to differ in any important way from that performed without entry.  Testimony before subcommittees considering Title III and related bills indicated that covert entries were a necessary part of most electronic bugging operations.  See, e. g., Anti-Crime Program: Hearings on H. R. 5037, etc., before Subcommittee No. 5 of the House Committee on the Judiciary, 90th Cong., 1st Sess., 1031 (1967).  Moreover, throughout the Senate Report on Title III indiscriminate reference is made to the types of surveillance this Court reviewed in Berger v. New York, 388 U.S. 41 (1967), and Katz v. United States, 389 U.S. 347 (1967). See, e. g., S. Rep. No. 1097, supra, at 74-75, 97, 101-102, 105.  Apparently Committee members did not find it significant that Berger involved a covert entry, whereas Katz did not.  Compare Berger v. New York, supra, at 45, with Katz v. United States, supra, at 348. 12
It is understandable, therefore, that by the time Title III was discussed on the floor of Congress, those Members who referred to covert entries indicated their understanding that such entries would necessarily be a part of bugging authorized under Title III.  Thus, for example, in voicing his support for Title III Senator Tydings emphasized the difficulties attendant upon installing necessary equipment:
" is very difficult to use.  Tape  must be installed on telephones, and wires strung.  Bugs are difficult to install in many places since surreptitious entry is often impossible.  Often, more than one entry is necessary to adjust equipment." 114 Cong. Rec. 12989 (1968) (emphasis added).
In the face of this record, one simply cannot assume that Congress, aware that most bugging requires covert entry, nonetheless wished to except surveillance requiring such entries from the broad authorization of Title III, and that it resolved to do so by remaining silent on the subject.  On the contrary, the language and history of Title III convey quite a different explanation for Congress' failure to distinguish between surveillance that requires covert entry and that which does not: Those considering the surveillance legislation understood that, by authorizing electronic interception of oral communications in addition to wire communications, they were necessarily authorizing surreptitious entries.
Finally, Congress' purpose in enacting the statute would be largely thwarted if we were to accept petitioner's invitation to read into Title III a limitation on the courts' authority under § 2518.   Congress permitted limited electronic surveillance under Title III because it concluded that both wiretapping and bugging were necessary to enable law enforcement authorities to combat successfully certain forms of crime. 13 Absent covert entry, however, almost all electronic bugging would be impossible. 14 See United States v. Ford, 414 F.Supp. 879, 882 (DC 1976), aff'd, 180 U. S. App. D. C. 1, 553 F.2d 146 (1977); McNamara, The Problem of Surreptitious Entry   to Effectuate Electronic Eavesdrops: How Do You Proceed After the Court Says "Yes"?, 15 Am. Crim. L. Rev. 1, 3 (1977). As recently as 1976, a congressional commission established to study and evaluate the effectiveness of Title III concluded that in most cases electronic surveillance cannot be performed without covert entry into the premises being monitored.  See U.S. National Commission for Review of Federal and State Laws Relating to Wiretapping and Electronic Surveillance, Electronic Surveillance 15, 43, and n. 19, 86 (1976).  The same conclusion was reached by the American Bar Association committee charged with formulating standards governing use of electronic surveillance. See ABA Project on Minimum Standards for Criminal Justice, Electronic Surveillance 65 n. 175, 149 (App. Draft 1971). 15
In sum, we conclude that Congress clearly understood that it was conferring power upon the courts to authorize covert entries ancillary to their responsibility to review and approve surveillance applications under the statute.  To read the statute otherwise would be to deny the "respect for the policy of Congress  must save us from imputing to it a self-defeating, if not disingenuous purpose." Nardone v. United States, 308 U.S. 338, 341 (1939).16
IV
Petitioner's final contention is that, if covert entries are to be authorized under Title III, the authorizing court must explicitly set forth its approval of such entries before the fact.  In this case, as is customary, the court's order constituted the sole written authorization of the surveillance of petitioner's office.  As it did not state in terms that the surveillance was to include a covert entry, petitioner insists that the entry violated his Fourth Amendment privacy rights.  Accord, United States v. Ford, 180 U. S. App. D. C., at 25, 553 F.2d, at 170;Application of United States, 563 F.2d 637, 644 (CA4 1977).17
The Fourth Amendment requires that search warrants be issued only "upon probable cause, supported by Oath or affirmation, and particularly describing the place to be searched, and the persons or things to be seized." Finding these words to be "precise and clear," Stanford v. Texas, 379 U.S. 476, 481 (1965), this Court has interpreted them to require only three things.  First, warrants must be issued by neutral, disinterested magistrates. See, e. g., Connally v. Georgia, 429 U.S. 245, 250-251 (1977) (per curiam); Shadwick v. Tampa, 407 U.S. 345, 350 (1972); Coolidge v. New Hampshire, 403 U.S. 443, 459-460 (1971). Second, those seeking the warrant must demonstrate to the magistrate their probable cause to believe that "the evidence sought will aid in a particular apprehension or conviction" for a particular offense.  Warden v. Hayden, 387 U.S. 294, 307 (1967). Finally, "warrants must particularly describe the 'things to be seized,'" as well as the place to be searched.  Stanford v. Texas, supra, at 485.
In the present case, the April 5 court order authorizing the interception of oral communications   occurring within petitioner's office was a warrant issued in full compliance with these traditional Fourth Amendment requirements.  It was based upon a neutral magistrate's independent finding of probable cause to believe that   petitioner had been and was committing specifically enumerated federal crimes, that petitioner's office was being used "in connection with the commission of  offenses," and that bugging the office would result in the interception of "oral communications concerning these offenses." App. 6a-7a. Moreover, the exact location and dimensions of petitioner's office were set forth, see n. 4, supra, and the extent of the search was restricted to the " oral communications of Larry Dalia and others as yet unknown, concerning the above-described offenses at the business office of Larry Dalia . . . ." App. 8a. 18
Petitioner contends, nevertheless, that the April 5 order was insufficient under the Fourth Amendment for its failure to specify that it would be executed by means of a covert entry of his office.  Nothing in the language of the Constitution or in this Court's decisions interpreting that language suggests that, in addition to the three requirements discussed above, search warrants also must include a specification of the precise manner in which they are to be executed.  On the contrary,   it is generally left to the discretion of the executing officers to determine the details of how best to proceed with the performance of a search authorized by warrant 19 -- subject of course to the general Fourth Amendment protection "against unreasonable searches and seizures."
Recognizing that the specificity required by the Fourth Amendment does not generally extend to the means by which warrants are executed, petitioner further argues that warrants for electronic surveillance are unique because often they impinge upon two different Fourth Amendment interests: The surveillance itself interferes only with the right to hold private conversations, whereas the entry subjects the suspect's property to possible damage and personal effects to unauthorized examination.  This view of the Warrant Clause parses too finely the interests protected by the Fourth Amendment .   Often in executing a warrant the police may find it necessary to interfere with privacy rights not explicitly considered by the judge who issued the warrant.  For example, police executing an arrest warrant commonly find it necessary to enter the suspect's home in order to take him into custody, and they thereby impinge on both privacy and freedom of movement.  See, e. g., United States v. Cravero, 545 F.2d 406, 421 (CA5 1976) (on petition for rehearing).  Similarly, officers executing search warrants on occasion must damage property in order to perform their duty.  See, e. g., United States v. Brown, 556 F.2d 304, 305 (CA5 1977); United States v. Gervato, 474 F.2d 40, 41 (CA3), cert. denied, 414 U.S. 864 (1973).
It would extend the Warrant Clause to the extreme to require that, whenever it is reasonably likely that Fourth Amendment rights may be affected in more than one way, the court must set forth precisely the procedures to be followed by the executing officers.  Such an interpretation is unnecessary, as we have held -- and the Government concedes -- that   the manner in which a warrant is executed is subject to later judicial review as to its reasonableness.  See Zurcher v. Stanford Daily, 436 U.S. 547, 559-560 (1978). 20 More important, we would promote empty formalism were we to require magistrates to make explicit what unquestionably is implicit in bugging authorizations: 21 that a covert entry, with its attendant interference with Fourth Amendment interests, may be necessary for the installation of the surveillance equipment.  See United States v. London, 424 F.Supp. 556, 560 (Md. 1976). We conclude,  therefore, that the Fourth Amendment does not require that a Title III electronic surveillance order include a specific authorization to enter covertly the premises described in the order. 22
The judgment of the Court of Appeals is
Affirmed.
<concur author="BRENNAN" text="TRUE">
CONCUR BY: BRENNAN (In Part)
DISSENT BY: BRENNAN (In Part); STEVENS
MR. JUSTICE BRENNAN, with whom MR. JUSTICE STEWART joins except as to Part I, concurring in part and dissenting in part.
I concur in Parts I and II of the Court's opinion.
I
I dissent from Part III for the reasons stated in the dissenting opinion of MR. JUSTICE STEVENS which I join.
II
I also dissent from Part IV.  In my view, even reading Title III to authorize covert entries, the Justice Department's present practice of securing specific authorization for covert entries is not only preferable, see ante, this page n. 22, but also constitutionally required.
Breaking and entering into private premises for the purpose of planting a bug cannot be characterized as a mere mode of warrant execution to be left to the discretion of the executing officer.  See ante, at 257.  The practice entails an invasion of privacy of constitutional significance distinct from that which attends nontrespassory surveillance; indeed, it is tantamount to an independent search and seizure.  First, rooms may be bugged without the need for surreptitious entry and physical invasion of private premises.  See Lopez v. United States, 373 U.S. 427, 467-468 (1963) (BRENNAN, J., dissenting). Second, covert entry, a practice condemned long before we condemned unwarranted eavesdropping, see Silverman v. United States, 365 U.S. 505 (1961), breaches physical as well as conversational privacy. The home or office itself, that "inviolate place which is a man's castle," id., at 512 n. 4, is invaded.  Third, the practice is particularly intrusive and susceptible to abuse since it leaves naked to the hands and eyes of government agents items beyond the reach of simple eavesdropping.
Because of these additional intrusions attendant to covert entries, the Constitution requires that government agents who wish to break into private premises first secure specific judicial authorization for the surreptitious entry.  Authority for the physical invasion cannot be derived from a Title III order authorizing only electronic surveillance.
" Fourth Amendment confines an officer executing a search warrant strictly within the bounds set by the warrant," Bivens v. Six Unknown Fed. Narcotics Agents, 403 U.S. 388, 394 n. 7 (1971),  in order to assure that those "searches deemed necessary  as limited as possible." Coolidge v. New Hampshire, 403 U.S. 443, 467 (1971). See Stanford v. Texas, 379 U.S. 476, 485 (1965); Marron v. United States, 275 U.S. 192, 196 (1927). * As a consequence, a warrant that describes only the seizure of conversations cannot be read expansively to authorize constitutionally distinct physical invasions of privacy at the discretion of the executing officer.  Rather, the Constitution demands that the necessity for home invasion be decided "by a neutral and detached magistrate instead of being judged by the officer engaged in the often competitive enterprise of ferreting out crime." Johnson v. United States, 333 U.S. 10, 14 (1948).
I cannot agree that adherence to this principle would amount to "specification of the precise manner" in which Title III orders are executed.  See ante, at 257.  The warrant could, consistent with the command of the Fourth Amendment, leave the details of how best to proceed with the covert entry to the discretion of the executing officers.  The warrant need only state, as under the present Justice Department practice, that "surreptitious entry for the purpose of installing and removing any electronic interception devices  to be utilized in accomplishing the oral interception." Ante, at 259 n. 22.
Nor can I agree that adherence to the strictures of the Warrant and Particularity Clauses of the Fourth Amendment would amount to "empty formalism." See ante, at 258.  Since premises may be bugged through means less drastic than home invasion, requiring police to secure prior approval for covert entries may well prevent unnecessary and improper intrusions. In any event, that the present case may not appear particularly abusive cannot justify the Court's crabbed interpretation of the Fourth Amendment. Mr. Justice Bradley's admonition almost a century ago has even greater cogency in today's world of ever more intrusive governmental invasions of privacy:
"It may be that it is the obnoxious thing in its mildest and least repulsive form; but illegitimate and unconstitutional practices get their first footing in that way, namely, by silent approaches and slight deviations from legal modes of procedure.  This can only be obviated by adhering to the rule that constitutional provisions for the security of person and property should be liberally construed.  A close and literal construction deprives them of half their efficacy, and leads to gradual depreciation of the right, as if it consisted more in sound than in substance.  It is the duty of courts to be watchful for the constitutional rights of the citizen, and against any stealthy encroachments thereon." Boyd v. United States, 116 U.S. 616, 635 (1886).
<dissent author="STEVENS" text="TRUE">
MR. JUSTICE STEVENS, with whom MR. JUSTICE BRENNAN and MR. JUSTICE MARSHALL join, dissenting.
At midnight on the night of April 5-6, 1973, three persons pried open a window to petitioner's business office and secretly entered the premises.  During the next three hours they moved freely about the building,  eventually implanting a listening device in the ceiling.  Several weeks later, they again broke into the office at night and removed the device.
The perpetrators of these break-ins were agents of the Federal Bureau of Investigation.  Their office, however, carries with it no general warrant to trespass on private property.  Without legislative or judicial sanction, the conduct of these agents was unquestionably "unreasonable" and therefore prohibited by the Fourth Amendment. 1 Moreover, that conduct violated the Criminal Code of the State of New Jersey unless it was duly authorized. 2
The only consideration that arguably might legitimate these "otherwise tortious and possibly criminal" invasions of petitioner's private property, 3 is the fact that a federal judge had entered an order authorizing the agents to use electronic equipment to intercept oral communications at petitioner's office. The order, however, did not describe the kind of equipment to be used and made no reference to an entry, covert or otherwise, into private property.  Nor does any statute expressly permit such activity or even authorize a federal judge to enter orders granting federal agents a license to commit criminal trespass.  The initial question this case raises, therefore, is whether this kind of power should be read into a statute that does not expressly grant it.
In my opinion, there are three reasons, each sufficient by itself, for refusing to do so.  First, until Congress has stated otherwise, our duty to protect the rights of the individual  should hold sway over the interest in more effective law enforcement.  Second, the structural detail of this statute precludes a reading that converts silence into thunder.  Third, the legislative history affirmatively demonstrates that Congress never contemplated the situation now before the Court.
I
"Congress, like this Court, has an obligation to obey the mandate of the Fourth Amendment." Marshall v. Barlow's, Inc., 436 U.S. 307, 334 (STEVENS, J., dissenting).  But Congress is better equipped than the Judiciary to make the empirical judgment that a previously unauthorized investigative technique represents a "reasonable" accommodation between the privacy interests protected by the Fourth Amendment and effective law enforcement. 4 Throughout our history, therefore, it has been Congress that has taken the lead in granting new authority to invade the citizen's privacy. 5 It is appropriate to accord special deference to Congress whenever it has expressly balanced the need for a new investigatory technique against the undesirable consequences of any intrusion on constitutionally protected interests in privacy. See id., at 334-339.
But no comparable deference should be given federal intrusions on privacy that are not expressly authorized by Congress. 6 In my view, a proper respect for Congress' important role in this area, as well as our tradition of interpreting statutes to avoid constitutional issues, 7 compels this conclusion.
The Court does not share this view.  For this is the third time in as many years that it has condoned a serious intrusion on privacy that was not explicitly authorized by statute and that admittedly raised a substantial constitutional question.  In United States v. Ramsey, 431 U.S. 606, the Court upheld an Executive regulation authorizing postal inspectors to open private letters without probable cause to believe they contained contraband. 8 In United States v. New York Telephone Co., 434 U.S. 159, the Court upheld orders authorizing the surreptitious pen-register surveillance of an individual and directing a private company to lend its assistance in that endeavor.  Again, no explicit statutory authority existed for either order, despite  Congress' otherwise comprehensive treatment of wire surveillance in Title III of the Omnibus Crime Control and Safe Streets Act of 1968 (Title III). 9
Today the Court has gone even further in finding an implicit grant of Executive power in Title III.  That Title "does not refer explicitly to covert entry" of any kind, much less to entries that are tortious or criminal.  Ante, at 249.  Nevertheless,  the Court holds that Congress, without having said so explicitly, has authorized the agents of a national police force in carrying out a surveillance order to break into private premises 10 in violation of state law.  Moreover, the Court finds in the silent statute an open-ended authorization to effect such illegal entries without an explicit judicial determination that there is probable cause to believe they are necessary or even appropriate.  In my judgment, it is most unrealistic to assume that Congress granted such broad and controversial authority to the Executive without making its intention to do so unmistakably plain.  This is the paradigm case in which "the exact words of the statute provide the surest guide to determining Congress' intent." 11 I would not enlarge the coverage of the statute beyond its plain meaning.
II
The Court's conclusion that the statute implicitly authorizes breaking and entering is especially anomalous because the statutory scheme in all other respects is exhaustive and explicit. 12 "It simply does not make sense" 13 to conclude that Congress -- having minutely detailed (1) the process that " Attorney General, or any Assistant Attorney General specially designated by the Attorney General" must follow in authorizing   federal police officers to seek an electronic surveillance order, 14 (2) the limited number of suspected offenses that will justify such an order, 15 (3) the showing that must be made to "a Federal judge" before he issues the order, 16 (4) the standard the judge must apply in approving, and the format he must follow in preparing, the order, 17 (5) the time frame of execution and the manner of execution with respect to minimizing the interception of communications not likely to involve criminal activity, 18 and even having more recently specified (6) certain "unobtrusive" means by which those orders might be carried out without the awareness of the suspect 19 -- was content to leave national police officers with unbounded authority to carry out the resulting orders in any unspecified and obtrusive fashion they chose "subject of course to constitutional limitations." Ante, at 250. 20
In my view, it is the opposite conclusion that is true to the statutory structure.  For "one simply cannot assume that Congress," see ante , at 252, wished to erect various procedural barriers against poor judgment on the part of the Attorney General and his subordinates in seeking, and on the part of federal district judges in issuing, eavesdropping orders only to commit their execution, even through illegal means, entirely to "the judgment and moderation of officers whose own interests and records are often at stake in the search." Brinegar v. United States, 338 U.S. 160, 182 (Jackson, J., dissenting). The detailed timing and minimization restrictions on the executing officer, see n. 18, supra, as well as the 1970 amendment to Title III concerning "unobtrusive" execution, see n. 19, supra, lead inescapably to the conclusion that Congress withheld authority to trespass on private property except through the limited means expressly dealt with in the statute. 21
III
Only one relevant conclusion can be drawn from a review of the entire legislative history of Title III.  The legislators never even considered the possibility that they were passing a statute that would authorize federal agents to break into private premises without any finding of necessity by a neutral and detached magistrate.
A
The meager legislative remarks that are said to demonstrate that Title III's supporters implicitly endorsed breaking and entering in order to install listening devices actually provide no support for that conclusion.
The reference to "judicial warrants authorizing  to hide bugs in the premises of criminal suspects," see ante, at 251 n. 12, was a comment by an opponent of the bill on investigative techniques that he believed this Court had ruled illegal in Berger v. New York, 388 U.S. 41. 22 Since neither he, nor any supporter of the bill, suggested that those techniques would be authorized by Title III, his comment is hardly indicative of a legislative endorsement of such practices.  Moreover, there is a marked difference between the judicially warranted " bugs in the premises of criminal suspects" and a forcible entry that has not been expressly authorized by any judge.  The difference between subterfuge and forcible trespass should not be ignored.
That difference explains why the Court's reliance on two statements by proponents of Title III that emphasize the technological limitations on  "bugs" and "taps" is misplaced.  The proponents believed these limitations would discourage the frequent use and abuse of electronic surveillance. Thus, in answer to repeated charges that passage of Title III would recreate Hitler's Germany or anticipate Orwell's "1984," Senator Tydings, in a passage partially quoted by the Court, ante, at 252, argued:
"Contrary to what we have heard, electronic surveillance is not a lazy way to conduct an investigation.  It will not be used wholesale as a substitute for physical investigation.
. . . .
"The  for such sparing use are simple.  First, electronic surveillance is really useful only in conspiratorial activities. . . .
"Second, surveillance is very difficult to use.  Tape must be installed on telephones and wires strung.  Bugs are difficult to install in many places since surreptitious entry is often impossible. Often, more than one entry is necessary to adjust equipment. . . .
"Third, monitoring this equipment requires the expenditure of a great amount of law enforcement's time . . . ." 114 Cong. Rec. 12988-12989 (1968) (emphasis added). 23
Read in context, this and like commentary are inconsistent with, rather than an endorsement of, unauthorized break-ins. For although it is of course true that surreptitious entry is often "impossible" when it must be accomplished without violating the law, surreptitious entry is by no means impossible (indeed, it is hardly "difficult") if it may be effected by whatever means the   police -- unhampered by the provisions of the criminal law -- can bring to their disposal.  Despite the Court's understanding of it, I read Senator Tydings' remark as only one of many expressions by Title III's supporters of their belief that authorized electronic surveillance would be "carefully circumscribed," id., at 13203 (Sen. Scott) and "rigidly controlled," id., at 14715 (Sen. Tydings), not only by technology but also by "strict court supervision," id., at 13200 (Sen. Scott), the "strictest guidelines," id., at 16076 (Rep. Harsha), and "an elaborate system of checks and safeguards." Id., at 13204 (Sen. Scott). 24
Even the opponents of Title III, in parading before Congress the various invasions of privacy that they felt would accompany the passage of the statute, never once referred to breaking and entering private property.  E. g., id., at 14710 (Sen. Cooper); id., at 14732 (Sen. Yarborough); id., at 16066 (Rep. Celler).  That they omitted such references while decrying far less aggravated invasions is strong evidence that they, at least, never thought about the issue that this case raises. 25 And since the sponsors of the legislation expressly stated that they had specified "every possible constitutional safeguard for the rights of individual privacy," id., at 14469 (Sen. McClellan), 26 their omission of any significant reference to these aggravated intrusions surely demonstrates that they did not consider this issue either.
In sum, as far as my research reveals, during the debates on Title III neither the proponents nor the opponents of the bill directly or indirectly expressed the view that the statute would authorize uninvited forcible trespasses by police officers as a means of implanting a listening device.
B
Because the drafters of Title III made "indiscriminate reference . . . to the types of surveillance this Court reviewed" in prior cases, ante, at 251, the Court draws the conclusion that Congress meant to authorize all "types of surveillance" discussed in those cases.  The premise does not support the conclusion.
Many of those cases, including the two specifically cited by the Court, 27 held that the police conduct involved was unlawful.  Rather than endorsing all of the techniques discussed in those cases, Congress was quite clearly trying to avoid the incidents of unconstitutionality those cases had   identified. 28 Moreover, in drafting Title III, the Senate Judiciary Committee did more than merely isolate and exclude from the bill the illegal elements of the police activity involved in those cases.  Thus, the Chairman of the Committee, in answer to a colleague's question whether Title III was drafted in conformity with the Fourth Amendment, stated:
"Completely so, let me say to my friend.  Completely so, and it is even more restrictive.  We have gone to every length which is proper, we think, to protect people's privacy." 114 Cong. Rec. 14470 (1968).
It is of greater importance, however, that although Congress was concerned with the "types of surveillance" involved in our prior cases, none of the congressional references to those cases discussed the type of entry made to effectuate the surveillance. Not a word in any of those pre-1968 opinions, save one, described an illegal entry or even implied that such an entry had occurred. Those opinions instead described situations in which a listening device had been surreptitiously placed: against an office wall in order to hear conversations in the next office, Goldman v. United States, 316 U.S. 129; on the person of a federal agent who recorded a conversation in the defendant's laundry, On Lee v. United States, 343 U.S. 747; in a cabaret, Lopez v. United States, 373 U.S. 427; in a law office, Osborn v. United States, 385 U.S. 323; against a spike inserted under a party wall, Silverman v. United States, 365 U.S. 505;  on the outside of a public telephone booth, Katz v. United States, 389 U.S. 347; and inside a private office, Berger v. New York, 388 U.S. 41. It is, of course, true that the conduct in each cited case was surreptitious, but there is a vast difference between detective work that is merely clandestine and work that involves breaking and entering into private property.  Before the decisions in Katz and Berger, the former technique was considered to be lawful, warrant or no warrant, 29 whereas the latter was considered unlawful. 30 The fact that Congress was prepared to enact a statute authorizing practices previously thought to be lawful surely does not justify the conclusion that it was equally prepared to authorize conduct that had always been made unlawful by the criminal laws of the various States.
Irvine v. California, 347 U.S. 128, was the only pre-1968 case in which this Court had actually confronted the implantation of an electronic listening device by way of a "trespass, and probably a burglary, for which any unofficial person should be, and probably would be, severely punished." Id., at 132. 31 The plurality of four, speaking through Mr. Justice Jackson, had this to say about the police conduct in that case:
"That officers of the law would break and enter a home, secrete such a device even in a bedroom, and listen to the conversations of the occupants for over a month would be incredible if it were not admitted.  Few police measures have come to our attention that more flagrantly, deliberately, and persistently violated the fundamental principle declared by the Fourth Amendment . . . ." Ibid.
No Member of the Court disagreed with this assessment, although a majority refused to overturn the conviction because the exclusionary rule did not then apply to the States.  While it is true, as the Court points out, ante, at 247, that four Members of the Irvine Court adverted to the lack of a "search warrant or other process" to support the entry, 347 U.S., at 132 (while the other three Members who discussed the issue found the police activity "offensive" and "revolting" without relying on the lack of a warrant 32), it is also true that no Justice condoned a break-in absent some court order explicitly contemplating physical entry on the premises.  Under any reading of the case, it cannot be taken as condoning official trespass and burglary absent specific authorization.
More importantly, the fact that Congress cited Irvine, without comment or explanation, when it was considering Title III cannot fairly be interpreted as an endorsement of the questionable police behavior that had been condemned so thunderously by Mr. Justice Jackson 14 years earlier.  My respect for the lawmaking process forecloses the inference that Congress authorized burglarious conduct by such stealthy legislative history.
IV
Because it is not supported by either the text of the statute or the scraps of relevant legislative history, 33 I fear that the Court's holding may reflect an unarticulated presumption that national police officers have the power to carry out a surveillance order by whatever means may be necessary unless explicitly prohibited by the statute or by the Constitution.
But surely the presumption should run the other way.  Congressional silence   should not be construed to authorize the Executive to violate state criminal laws or to encroach upon constitutionally protected privacy interests. Before confronting the serious constitutional issues raised by the Court's reading of Title III, 34 we should insist upon an unambiguous statement by Congress that this sort of police conduct may be authorized by a court and that a specific showing of necessity, or at least probable cause, must precede such an authorization. Without a legislative mandate that is both explicit and specific, I would presume that this flagrant invasion of the citizen's privacy is prohibited.  Cf.  United States v. New York Telephone Co., 434 U.S., at 178-179 (STEVENS, J., dissenting in part); United States v. Ramsey, 431 U.S., at 632 (STEVENS, J., dissenting). 35
I respectfully dissent.
