OPINION
In No. 78-1871, Frank W. Snepp III seeks review of a judgment enforcing an agreement that he signed when he accepted employment with the Central Intelligence Agency (CIA).  He also contends that punitive damages are an inappropriate remedy for the breach of his promise to submit all writings about the Agency for prepublication review.  In No. 79-265, the United States conditionally cross petitions from a judgment refusing to find that profits attributable to Snepp's breach are impressed with a constructive trust. We grant the petitions for certiorari in order to correct the judgment from which both parties seek relief.
I
Based on his experiences as a CIA agent, Snepp published a book about certain CIA activities in South Vietnam.  Snepp published the account without submitting it to the Agency for prepublication review.  As an express condition of his employment with the CIA in 1968, however, Snepp had executed an agreement promising that he would "not . . . publish . . . any information or material relating to the Agency, its activities or intelligence activities generally, either during or after the term of  employment . . . without specific prior approval by the Agency." App. to Pet. for Cert. in No. 78-1871, p. 59a.  The promise was an integral part of Snepp's concurrent undertaking "not to disclose any classified information relating to the Agency without proper authorization." Id., at 58a. 1 Thus, Snepp had pledged not to divulge classified information and not to publish any information without prepublication clearance. The Government brought this suit to enforce Snepp's agreement.  It sought a declaration that Snepp had breached the contract, an injunction requiring Snepp to submit future writings for prepublication review, and an order imposing a constructive trust for the Government's benefit on all profits that Snepp might earn from publishing the book in violation of his fiduciary obligations to the Agency. 2
The District Court found that Snepp had "willfully, deliberately and surreptitiously breached his position of trust with the CIA and the  secrecy agreement" by publishing his book without submitting it for prepublication review.  456 F.Supp. 176, 179 (ED Va. 1978). The court also found that Snepp deliberately misled CIA officials into believing that he would submit the book for prepublication clearance. Finally, the court determined as a fact that publication of the book had "caused the United States irreparable harm and loss." Id., at 180. The District Court therefore enjoined future breaches of Snepp's agreement and imposed a constructive trust on Snepp's profits.
The Court of Appeals accepted the findings of the District Court and agreed that Snepp had breached a valid contract. 3 It specifically affirmed the finding that Snepp's failure to submit his manuscript for prepublication review had inflicted "irreparable harm" on intelligence activities vital to our national security. 595 F.2d 926, 935 (CA4 1979).Thus, the court upheld the injunction against future violations of Snepp's prepublication obligation.  The court, however, concluded that the record did not support imposition of a constructive trust. The conclusion rested on the court's perception that Snepp had a First Amendment right to publish unclassified information and the Government's concession -- for the purposes of this litigation -- that Snepp's book divulged no classified intelligence. Id., at 935-936. 4 In other words, the court thought that Snepp's fiduciary obligation extended only to preserving the confidentiality of classified material.  It therefore limited recovery to nominal damages and to the possibility of punitive damages if the Government -- in a jury trial -- could prove tortious conduct.
Judge Hoffman, sitting by designation, dissented from the refusal to find a constructive trust. The 1968 agreement, he wrote, "was no ordinary contract; it gave life to a fiduciary relationship and invested in Snepp the trust of the CIA." Id., at 938.  Prepublication clearance was part of Snepp's undertaking to protect confidences associated with his trust.  Punitive damages, Judge Hoffman argued, were both a speculative and inappropriate remedy for Snepp's breach.  We agree with Judge Hoffman that Snepp breached a fiduciary obligation and that the proceeds of his breach are impressed with a constructive trust.
II
Snepp's employment with the CIA involved an extremely high degree of trust.  In the opening sentence of the agreement that he signed, Snepp explicitly recognized that he was entering a trust relationship. 5 The trust agreement specifically imposed the obligation not to publish any information relating to the Agency without submitting the information for clearance. Snepp stipulated at trial that -- after undertaking this obligation -- he had been "assigned to various positions of trust" and that he had been granted "frequent access to classified information, including information regarding intelligence sources and methods." 456 F.Supp., at 178. 6 Snepp published his book about CIA activities on the basis of this background and exposure.  He deliberately and surreptitiously violated his obligation to submit all material for prepublication review.  Thus, he exposed the classified information with which he had been entrusted to the risk of disclosure.
Whether Snepp violated his trust does not depend upon whether his book actually contained classified information. The Government does not deny -- as a general principle -- Snepp's right to publish unclassified information.  Nor does it contend -- at this stage of the litigation -- that Snepp's book contains classified material.  The Government simply claims that, in light of the special trust reposed in him and the agreement that he signed, Snepp should have given the CIA an opportunity to determine whether the material he proposed to publish would compromise classified information or sources.  Neither of the Government's concessions undercuts its claim that Snepp's failure to submit to prepublication review was a breach of his trust.
Both the District Court and the Court of Appeals found that   a former intelligence agent's publication of unreviewed material relating to intelligence activities can be detrimental to vital national interests even if the published information is unclassified. When a former agent relies on his own judgment about what information is detrimental, he may reveal information that the CIA -- with its broader understanding of what may expose classified information and confidential sources -- could have identified as harmful. In addition to receiving intelligence from domestically based or controlled sources, the CIA obtains information from the intelligence services of friendly nations 7 and from agents operating in foreign countries. The continued availability of these foreign sources depends upon the CIA's ability to guarantee the security of information that might compromise them and even endanger the personal safety of foreign agents.
Undisputed evidence in this case shows that a CIA agent's violation of his obligation to submit writings about the Agency for prepublication review impairs the CIA's ability to perform its statutory duties. Admiral Turner, Director of the CIA, testified without contradiction that Snepp's book and others like it have seriously impaired the effectiveness of American intelligence operations. He said:
"Over the last six to nine months, we have had a number of sources discontinue work with us.  We have had more sources tell us that they are very nervous about continuing work with us.  We have had very strong complaints from a number of foreign intelligence services with whom we conduct liaison, who have questioned whether they should continue exchanging information with us, for fear it will not remain secret. I cannot estimate to you how many potential sources or liaison arrangements have never germinated because people were unwilling to enter into business with us." 456 F.Supp., at 179-180. 8
In view of this and other evidence in the record, both the District Court and the Court of Appeals recognized that Snepp's breach of his explicit obligation to submit his material -- classified or not -- for prepublication clearance has irreparably harmed the United States Government.  595 F.2d, at 935 ; 456 F.Supp., at 180. 9
III
The decision of the Court of Appeals denies the Government the most appropriate remedy for Snepp's acknowledged wrong.  Indeed, as a practical matter, the decision may well leave the Government with no reliable deterrent against similar breaches of security.  No one disputes that the actual damages attributable to a publication such as Snepp's generally are unquantifiable. Nominal damages are a hollow alternative, certain to deter no one.  The punitive damages recoverable after a jury trial are speculative and unusual.  Even if recovered, they may bear no relation to either the Government's irreparable loss or Snepp's unjust gain.
The Government could not pursue the only remedy that the Court of Appeals left it 10 without losing the benefit of the bargain it seeks to enforce.  Proof of the tortious conduct necessary to sustain an award of punitive damages might force the Government to disclose some of the very confidences that Snepp promised to protect.  The trial of such a suit, before a jury if the defendant so elects, would subject the CIA and its officials to probing discovery into the Agency's highly confidential affairs.  Rarely would the Government run this risk.  In a letter introduced at Snepp's trial, former CIA Director Colby noted the analogous problem in criminal cases.  Existing law, he stated, "requires the revelation in open court of confirming or additional information of such a nature that the potential damage to the national security precludes prosecution." App. to Pet. for Cert. in No. 78-1871, p. 68a.  When the Government cannot secure its remedy without unacceptable risks, it has no remedy at all.
A constructive trust, on the other hand, protects both the Government and the former agent from unwarranted risks.  This remedy is the natural and customary consequence of a breach of trust. 11 It deals fairly with both parties by conforming relief to the dimensions of the wrong.  If the agent secures prepublication clearance, he can publish with no fear of liability.  If the agent publishes unreviewed material in violation of his fiduciary and contractual obligation, the trust remedy simply requires him to disgorge the benefits of his faithlessness.  Since the remedy is swift and sure, it is tailored to deter those who would place sensitive information at risk.  And since the remedy reaches only funds attributable to the breach, it cannot saddle the former agent with exemplary damages out of all proportion to his gain.  The decision of the Court of Appeals would deprive the Government of this equitable and effective means of protecting intelligence that may contribute to national security. We therefore reverse the judgment of the Court of Appeals insofar as it refused to impose a constructive trust on Snepp's profits, and we remand the cases to the Court of Appeals for reinstatement of the full judgment of the District Court.
So ordered.
DISSENT BY: STEVENS
MR. JUSTICE STEVENS, with whom MR. JUSTICE BRENNAN and MR. JUSTICE MARSHALL join, dissenting.
In 1968, Frank W. Snepp signed an employment agreement with the CIA in which he agreed to submit to the Agency any information he intended to publish about it for prepublication review. 1 The purpose of such an agreement, as the Fourth Circuit held, is not to give the CIA the power to censor its employees' critical speech, but rather to ensure that classified, nonpublic information is not disclosed without the Agency's permission.  595 F.2d 926, 932 (1979); see also United States v. Marchetti, 466 F.2d 1309, 1317 (CA4 1972), cert. denied, 409 U.S. 1063.
In this case Snepp admittedly breached his duty to submit the manuscript of his book, Decent Interval, to the CIA for prepublication review.  However, the Government has conceded that the book contains no classified, nonpublic material. 2 Thus, by definition, the interest in confidentiality   that Snepp's contract was designed to protect has not been compromised. Nevertheless, the Court today grants the Government unprecedented and drastic relief in the form of a constructive trust over the profits derived by Snepp from the sale of the book.  Because that remedy is not authorized by any applicable law and because it is most inappropriate for the Court to dispose of this novel issue summarily on the Government's conditional cross-petition for certiorari, I respectfully dissent.
I
The rule of law the Court announces today is not supported by statute, by the contract, or by the common law. Although Congress has enacted a number of criminal statutes punishing the unauthorized dissemination of certain types of classified information, 3 it has not seen fit to authorize the constructive trust remedy the Court creates today.  Nor does either of the contracts Snepp signed with the Agency provide for any such remedy in the event of a breach. 4 The Court's per curiam opinion seems to suggest that its result is supported by a blend of the law of trusts and the law of contracts. 5 But neither of these branches of the common law supports the imposition of a constructive trust under the circumstances of this case.
Plainly this is not a typical trust situation in which a settlor has conveyed legal title to certain assets to a trustee for the use and benefit of designated beneficiaries.  Rather, it is an employment relationship in which the employee possesses fiduciary obligations arising out of his duty of loyalty to his employer.  One of those obligations,  long recognized by the common law even in the absence of a written employment agreement, is the duty to protect confidential or "classified" information.  If Snepp had breached that obligation, the common law would support the implication of a constructive trust upon the benefits derived from his misuse of confidential information. 6
But Snepp did not breach his duty to protect confidential information. Rather, he breached a contractual duty, imposed in aid of the basic duty to maintain confidentiality, to obtain prepublication clearance. In order to justify the imposition of a constructive trust, the majority attempts to equate this contractual duty with Snepp's duty not to disclose, labeling them both as "fiduciary." I find nothing in the common law to support such an approach.
Employment agreements often contain covenants designed to ensure in various ways that an employee fully complies with his duty not to disclose or misuse confidential information. One of the most common is a covenant not to compete. Contrary to the majority's approach in this case, the courts have not construed such covenants broadly simply because they support a basic fiduciary duty; nor have they granted sweeping remedies to enforce them.  On the contrary, because such covenants are agreements in restraint of an individual's freedom of trade, they are enforceable only if they can survive scrutiny under the "rule of reason." That rule, originally laid down in the seminal case of Mitchel v. Reynolds, 1 P. Wms. 181, 24 Eng. Rep. 347 (1711), requires that the covenant be reasonably necessary to protect a legitimate interest of the employer (such as an interest in confidentiality), that the employer's interest not be outweighed by the public interest, 7 and that the covenant not be of any longer duration or wider geographical scope than necessary to protect the employer's interest. 8
The Court has not persuaded me that a rule of reason analysis should not be applied to Snepp's covenant to submit to prepublication review.  Like an ordinary employer, the CIA has a vital interest in protecting certain types of information; at the same time, the CIA employee has a countervailing interest in preserving a wide range of work opportunities (including work as an author) and in protecting his First Amendment rights.  The public interest lies in a proper accommodation that will preserve the intelligence mission of the Agency while not abridging the free flow of unclassified information.  When the Government seeks to enforce a harsh restriction on the employee's freedom, 9 despite its admission that the interest the agreement was designed to protect -- the confidentiality of classified information -- has not been compromised, an equity court might well be persuaded that the case is not one in which the covenant should be enforced. 10
But even assuming that Snepp's covenant to submit to prepublication review should be enforced, the constructive trust imposed by the Court is not an appropriate remedy. If an employee has used his employer's confidential information for his own personal profit, a constructive trust over those profits is obviously an appropriate remedy because the profits are the direct result of the breach.  But Snepp admittedly did not use confidential information in his book; nor were the profits from his book in any sense a product of his failure to submit the book for prepublication review.  For, even if Snepp had submitted the book to the Agency for prepublication review, the Government's censorship authority would surely have been limited to the excision of classified material. In this case, then, it would have been obliged to clear the book for publication in precisely the same form as it now stands. 11 Thus, Snepp has not gained any profits as a result of his breach; the Government, rather than Snepp, will be unjustly enriched if he is required to disgorge profits attributable entirely to his own legitimate activity.
Despite the fact that Snepp has not caused the Government the type of harm that would ordinarily be remedied by the imposition of a constructive trust, the Court attempts to justify a constructive trust remedy on the ground that the Government has suffered some harm.  The Court states that publication of "unreviewed material" by a former CIA agent "can be detrimental to vital national interests even if the published information is unclassified." Ante, at 511-512.  It then seems to suggest that the injury in such cases stems from the Agency's inability to catch "harmful" but unclassified information before it is published.  I do not believe, however, that the Agency has any authority to censor its employees' publication of unclassified information on the basis of its opinion that publication may be "detrimental to vital national interests" or otherwise "identified as harmful." Ibid.  The CIA never attempted to assert such power over Snepp in either of the contracts he signed; rather, the Agency itself limited its censorship power to preventing the disclosure of "classified" information.  Moreover, even if such a wide-ranging prior restraint would be good national security policy, I would have great difficulty reconciling it with the demands of the First Amendment.
The Court also relies to some extent on the Government's theory at trial that Snepp caused it harm by flouting his prepublication review obligation and thus making it appear that the CIA was powerless to prevent its agents from publishing any information they chose to publish, whether classified or not. The Government theorized that this appearance of weakness would discourage foreign governments from cooperating with the CIA because of a fear that their secrets might also be compromised.  In support of its position that Snepp's book had in fact had such an impact, the Government introduced testimony by the Director of the CIA, Admiral Stansfield Turner, stating that Snepp's book and others like it had jeopardized the CIA's relationship with foreign intelligence services by making them unsure of the Agency's ability to maintain confidentiality. Admiral Turner's truncated testimony does not explain, however, whether these unidentified "other" books actually contained classified information. 12 If so, it is difficult to believe that the publication of a book like Snepp's, which does not reveal classified information, has   significantly weakened the Agency's position.  Nor does it explain whether the unidentified foreign agencies who have stopped cooperating with the CIA have done so because of a legitimate fear that secrets will be revealed or because they merely disagree with our Government's classification policies. 13
In any event, to the extent that the Government seeks to punish Snepp for the generalized harm he has caused by failing to submit to prepublication review and to deter others from following in his footsteps, punitive damages is, as the Court of Appeals held, clearly the preferable remedy "since a constructive trust depends on the concept of unjust enrichment rather than deterrence and punishment.  See D. Dobbs, Law of Remedies ยง 3.9 at 205 and ยง 4.3 at 246 (1973)." 595 F.2d, at 937. 14
II
The Court's decision to dispose of this case summarily on the Government's conditional cross-petition for certiorari is just as unprecedented as its disposition of the merits.
Snepp filed a petition for certiorari challenging the Fourth Circuit's decision insofar as it affirmed the entry of an injunction requiring him to submit all future manuscripts for prepublication review and remanded for a determination of whether punitive damages would be appropriate for his failure to submit Decent Interval to the Agency prior to its publication.  The Government filed a brief in opposition as well as a cross-petition for certiorari; the Government specifically stated, however, that it was cross petitioning only to bring the entire case before the Court in the event that the Court should decide to grant Snepp's petition.  The Government explained that " the contract remedy provided by the court of appeals appears to be sufficient in this case to protect the Agency's interest, the government has not independently sought review in this Court." In its concluding paragraph the Government stated: "If this Court grants  . . . petition for a writ of certiorari in No. 78-1871, it should also grant this cross-petition. If the petition in No. 78-1871 is denied, this petition should also be denied." Pet. for Cert. in No. 79-265, p. 5.
Given the Government's position, it would be highly inappropriate, and perhaps even beyond this Court's jurisdiction, to grant the Government's petition while denying Snepp's.  Yet that is in essence what has been done. 15 The majority obviously does not believe that Snepp's claims merit this Court's consideration, for they are summarily dismissed in a footnote.  Ante, at 509, n. 3.  It is clear that Snepp's petition would not have been granted on its own merits.
The Court's opinion is a good demonstration of why this Court should not reach out to decide a question not necessarily presented to it, as it has done in this case.  Despite the fact that the Government has specifically stated that the punitive damages remedy is "sufficient" to protect its interests, the Court forges ahead and summarily rejects that remedy on the grounds that (a) it is too speculative and thus would not provide the Government with a "reliable deterrent against similar breaches of security," ante, at 514, and (b) it might require the Government to reveal confidential information in court, the Government might forgo damages rather than make such disclosures, and the Government might thus be left with "no remedy at all," ante, at 515.  It seems to me that the Court is foreclosed from relying upon either ground by the Government's acquiescence in the punitive damages remedy.  Moreover, the second rationale 16 is entirely speculative and, in this case at least, almost certainly wrong.  The Court states that
" of the tortious conduct necessary to sustain an award of punitive damages might force the Government to disclose some of the very confidences that Snepp promised to protect." Ante, at 514.
Yet under the Court of Appeals' opinion the Government would be entitled to punitive damages simply by proving that Snepp deceived it into believing that he was going to comply with his duty to submit the manuscript for prepublication review and that the Government relied on these misrepresentations to its detriment.  I fail to see how such a showing would require the Government to reveal any confidential information or to expose itself to "probing discovery into the Agency's highly confidential affairs." Ante, at 515.
III
The uninhibited character of today's exercise in lawmaking is highlighted by the Court's disregard of two venerable principles that favor a more conservative approach to this case.
First, for centuries the English-speaking judiciary refused to grant equitable relief unless the plaintiff could show that his remedy at law was inadequate. Without waiting for an opportunity to appraise the adequacy of the punitive damages remedy in this case, the Court has jumped to the conclusion that equitable relief is necessary.
Second, and of greater importance, the Court seems unaware of the fact that its drastic new remedy has been fashioned to enforce a species of prior restraint on a citizen's right to criticize his government. 17 Inherent in this prior restraint is the risk that the reviewing agency will misuse its authority to delay the publication of a critical work or to persuade an author to modify the contents of his work beyond the demands of secrecy. The character of the covenant as a prior restraint on free speech surely imposes an especially heavy burden on the censor to justify the remedy it seeks.  It would take more than the Court has written to persuade me that that burden has been met.
I respectfully dissent.
