OPINION
MR. JUSTICE STEWART delivered the opinion of the Court.
In Miranda v. Arizona, 384 U.S. 436, 474,   the Court held that, once a defendant in custody asks to speak with a lawyer, all interrogation must cease until a lawyer is present.  The issue in this case is whether the respondent was "interrogated" in violation of the standards promulgated in the Miranda opinion.
I
On the night of January 12, 1975, John Mulvaney, a Providence, R. I., taxicab driver, disappeared after being dispatched to pick up a customer.  His body was discovered four days later buried in a shallow grave in Coventry, R. I.  He had died from a shotgun blast aimed at the back of his head.
On January 17, 1975, shortly after midnight, the Providence police received a telephone call from Gerald Aubin, also a taxicab driver, who reported that he had just been robbed by a man wielding a sawed-off shotgun. Aubin further reported that he had dropped off his assailant near Rhode Island College in a section of Providence known as Mount Pleasant.  While at the Providence police station waiting to give a statement, Aubin noticed a picture of his assailant on a bulletin board.  Aubin so informed one of the police officers present.  The officer prepared a photo array, and again Aubin identified a picture of the same person.  That person was the respondent.  Shortly thereafter, the Providence police began a search of the Mount Pleasant area.
At approximately 4:30 a. m. on the same date, Patrolman Lovell, while cruising the streets of Mount Pleasant in a patrol car, spotted the respondent standing in the street facing him.  When Patrolman Lovell stopped his car, the respondent walked towards it.  Patrolman Lovell then arrested the respondent, who was unarmed, and advised him of his so-called Miranda rights.  While the two men waited in the patrol car for other police officers to arrive, Patrolman Lovell did not converse with the respondent other than to respond to the latter's request for a cigarette.
Within minutes, Sergeant Sears arrived at the scene of the arrest, and he also gave the respondent the Miranda warnings. Immediately thereafter, Captain Leyden and other police officers arrived.  Captain Leyden advised the respondent of his Miranda rights.  The respondent stated that he understood those rights and wanted to speak with a lawyer.  Captain Leyden then directed that the respondent be placed in a "caged wagon," a four-door police car with a wire screen mesh between the front and rear seats, and be driven to the central police station. Three officers, Patrolmen Gleckman, Williams, and McKenna, were assigned to accompany the respondent to the central station.  They placed the respondent in the vehicle and shut the doors.  Captain Leyden then instructed the officers not to question the respondent or intimidate or coerce him in any way.  The three officers then entered the vehicle, and it departed.
While en route to the central station, Patrolman Gleckman initiated a conversation with Patrolman McKenna concerning the missing shotgun. 1   As Patrolman Gleckman later testified:
"A. At this point, I was talking back and forth with Patrolman McKenna stating that I frequent this area while on patrol and  there's a lot of handicapped children running around in this area, and God  forbid one of them might find a weapon with shells and they might hurt themselves." App. 43-44.
Patrolman McKenna apparently shared his fellow officer's concern:
"A. I more or less concurred with him  that it was a safety factor and that we should, you know, continue to search for the weapon and try to find it." Id., at 53.
While Patrolman Williams said nothing, he overheard the conversation between the two officers:
"A. He  said it would be too bad if the little -- I believe he said a girl -- would pick up the gun, maybe kill herself." Id., at 59.
The respondent then interrupted the conversation, stating that the officers should turn the car around so he could show them where the gun was located.  At this point, Patrolman McKenna radioed back to Captain Leyden that they were returning to the scene of the arrest, and that the respondent would inform them of the location of the gun. At the time the respondent indicated that the officers should turn back, they had traveled no more than a mile, a trip encompassing only a few minutes.
The police vehicle then returned to the scene of the arrest where a search for the shotgun was in progress.  There, Captain Leyden again advised the respondent of his Miranda rights.  The respondent replied that he understood those rights but that he "wanted to get the gun out of the way because of the kids in the area in the school." The respondent then led the police to a nearby field, where he pointed out the shotgun under some rocks by the side of the road.
On March 20, 1975, a grand jury returned an indictment charging the respondent with the kidnaping, robbery, and murder of John Mulvaney.  Before trial, the respondent moved to suppress the shotgun and the statements he had made to the police regarding it.  After an evidentiary hearing at which the respondent elected not to testify, the trial judge found that the respondent had been "repeatedly and completely advised of his Miranda rights." He further found that it was "entirely understandable that  would voice their concern  to each other." The judge then concluded that the respondent's decision to inform the police of the location of the shotgun was "a waiver, clearly, and on the basis of the evidence that I have heard, and  intelligent waiver, of his  right to remain silent." Thus, without passing on whether the police officers had in fact "interrogated" the respondent, the trial court sustained the admissibility of the shotgun and testimony related to its discovery. That evidence was later introduced at the respondent's trial, and the jury returned a verdict of guilty on all counts.
On appeal, the Rhode Island Supreme Court, in a 3-2 decision, set aside the respondent's conviction.  120 R. I.    , 391 A. 2d 1158. Relying at least in part on this Court's decision in Brewer v. Williams, 430 U.S. 387, the court concluded that the respondent had invoked his Miranda right to counsel and that, contrary to Miranda's mandate that, in the absence of counsel, all custodial interrogation then cease, the police officers in the vehicle had "interrogated" the respondent without a valid waiver of his right to counsel. It was the view of the state appellate court that, even though the police officers may have been genuinely concerned about the public safety and even though the respondent had not been addressed personally by the police officers, the respondent nonetheless had been subjected to "subtle coercion" that was the equivalent of "interrogation" within the meaning of the Miranda opinion.  Moreover, contrary to the holding of the trial court, the appellate court concluded that the evidence was insufficient to support a finding of waiver.  Having   concluded that both the shotgun and testimony relating to its discovery were obtained in violation of the Miranda standards and therefore should not have been admitted into evidence, the Rhode Island Supreme Court held that the respondent was entitled to a new trial.
We granted certiorari to address for the first time the meaning of "interrogation" under Miranda v. Arizona.  440 U.S. 934.
II
In its Miranda opinion, the Court concluded that   in the context of "custodial interrogation" certain procedural safeguards are necessary to protect a defendant's Fifth and Fourteenth Amendment privilege against compulsory self-incrimination.  More specifically, the Court held that "the prosecution may not use statements, whether exculpatory or inculpatory, stemming from custodial interrogation of the defendant unless it demonstrates the use of procedural safeguards effective to secure the privilege against self-incrimination." 384 U.S., at 444. Those safeguards included the now familiar Miranda warnings -- namely, that the defendant be informed "that he has the right to remain silent, that anything he says can be used against him in a court of law, that he has the right to the presence of an attorney, and that if he cannot afford an attorney one will be appointed for him prior to any questioning if he so desires" -- or their equivalent.  Id., at 479.
The Court in the Miranda opinion also outlined in some detail the consequences that would result if a defendant sought to invoke those procedural safeguards. With regard to the right to the presence of counsel, the Court noted:
"Once warnings have been given, the subsequent procedure is   clear. . . .  If the individual states that he wants an attorney, the interrogation must cease until an attorney is present.  At that time, the individual must have an opportunity to confer with the attorney and to   have him present during any subsequent questioning. If the individual cannot obtain an attorney and he indicates that he wants one before speaking to police, they must respect his decision to remain silent." Id., at 473-474.
In the present case, the parties are in agreement that the respondent was fully informed of his Miranda rights and that he invoked his Miranda right to counsel when he told Captain Leyden that he wished to consult with a lawyer.  It is also uncontested that the respondent was "in custody" while being transported to the police station.
The issue, therefore, is whether the respondent was "interrogated" by the police officers in violation of the respondent's undisputed right under Miranda to remain silent until he had consulted with a lawyer. 2 In resolving this issue, we first define the term "interrogation" under Miranda before turning to a consideration of the facts of this case.
A
The starting point for defining "interrogation" in this context is, of course, the Court's Miranda opinion.  There the Court observed that   " custodial interrogation, we mean questioning initiated by law enforcement officers after a person has been taken into custody or otherwise deprived of his freedom of action in any significant way." Id., at 444 (emphasis added).  This passage and other references throughout the opinion to "questioning" might suggest that the Miranda rules were to apply only to those police interrogation practices that involve express questioning of a defendant while in custody.
We do not, however, construe the Miranda opinion so narrowly.  The concern of the Court in Miranda was that the "interrogation environment" created by the interplay of interrogation and custody would "subjugate the individual to the will of his examiner" and thereby undermine the privilege against compulsory self-incrimination.  Id., at 457-458. The police practices that evoked this concern included several that did not involve express questioning. For example, one of the practices discussed in Miranda was the use of lineups in which a coached witness would pick the defendant as the perpetrator.  This was designed to establish that the defendant was in fact guilty as a predicate for further interrogation. Id., at 453. A variation on this theme discussed in Miranda was the so-called "reverse line-up" in which a defendant would be identified by coached witnesses as the perpetrator of a fictitious crime, with the object of inducing him to confess to the actual crime of which he was suspected in order to escape the false prosecution.  Ibid.  The Court in Miranda also included in its survey of interrogation practices the use of psychological ploys, such as to "" "the guilt of the subject," to "minimize the moral seriousness of the offense," and "to cast blame on the victim or on society." Id., at 450. It is clear that these techniques of persuasion, no less than express questioning, were thought, in a custodial setting, to amount to interrogation. 3
This is not to say, however, that all statements obtained by the police after a person has been taken into custody are to be considered the product of interrogation. As the Court in Miranda noted:
"Confessions remain a proper element in law enforcement.  Any statement given freely and voluntarily without any compelling influences is, of course, admissible in evidence.  The fundamental import of the privilege while an individual is in custody is not whether he is allowed to talk to the police without the benefit of warnings and counsel, but whether he can be interrogated. . . .  Volunteered statements of any kind are not barred by the Fifth Amendment and their admissibility is not affected by our holding today." Id., at 478 (emphasis added).
It is clear therefore that the special procedural safeguards outlined in Miranda are required not where a suspect is simply taken into custody, but rather where a suspect in custody is subjected to interrogation. "Interrogation," as conceptualized in the Miranda opinion, must reflect a measure of compulsion above and beyond that inherent in custody itself. 4
We conclude that   the Miranda safeguards come into play whenever a person in custody is subjected to either express questioning or its functional equivalent. That is to say, the term "interrogation" under Miranda refers not only to express questioning, but also to any words or actions on the part of the police (other than those normally attendant to arrest and custody) that the police should know are reasonably likely to elicit an incriminating response 5 from the suspect. 6 The latter portion of this definition focuses primarily upon the perceptions of the suspect, rather than the intent of the police.  This focus reflects the fact that the Miranda safeguards were designed to vest a suspect in custody with an added measure of protection against coercive police practices, without regard to objective proof of the underlying intent of the police.  A practice that the police should know is reasonably likely to evoke an incriminating response from a suspect thus amounts to interrogation. 7 But, since the police surely cannot be held accountable for the unforeseeable results of their words or actions, the definition of interrogation can extend only to words or actions on the part of police officers that they should have known were reasonably likely to elicit an incriminating response. 8
B
Turning to the facts of the present case, we conclude that the respondent was not "interrogated" within the meaning of Miranda.  It is undisputed that the first prong of the definition of "interrogation" was not satisfied, for the conversation between Patrolmen Gleckman and McKenna included no express questioning of the respondent.  Rather, that conversation was, at least in form, nothing more than a dialogue between the two officers to which no response from the respondent was invited.
Moreover, it cannot be fairly concluded that the respondent was subjected to the "functional equivalent" of questioning. It cannot be said, in short, that Patrolmen Gleckman and McKenna should have known that their conversation was reasonably likely to elicit an incriminating response from the respondent. There is nothing in the record to suggest that the officers were aware that the respondent was peculiarly susceptible to an appeal to his conscience concerning the safety of handicapped children. Nor is there anything in the record to suggest that the police knew that the respondent was unusually disoriented or upset at the time of his arrest. 9
The case thus boils down to whether, in the context of a brief conversation, the officers should have known that the respondent would suddenly be moved to make a self-incriminating response.  Given the fact that the entire conversation appears to have consisted of no more than a few offhand remarks, we cannot say that the officers should have known that it was reasonably likely that Innis would so respond.  This is not a case where the police carried on a lengthy harangue in the presence of the suspect.  Nor does the record support the respondent's contention that, under the circumstances, the officers' comments were particularly "evocative." It is our view, therefore, that the respondent was not subjected by the police to words or actions that the police should have known were reasonably likely to elicit an incriminating response from him.
The Rhode Island Supreme Court erred, in short, in equating "subtle compulsion" with interrogation. That the officers' comments struck a responsive chord is readily apparent.  Thus, it may be said, as the Rhode Island Supreme Court did say, that the respondent was subjected to "subtle compulsion." But that is not the end of the inquiry.  It must also be established that a suspect's incriminating response was the product of words or actions on the part of the police that they should have known were reasonably likely to elicit an incriminating response. 10 This was not established in the present case.
For the reasons stated, the judgment of the Supreme Court of Rhode Island is vacated, and the case is remanded to that court for further proceedings not inconsistent with this opinion.
It is so ordered.
<concur author="WHITE_B" text="TRUE">
CONCUR BY: WHITE; BURGER
MR. JUSTICE WHITE, concurring.
I would prefer to reverse the judgment for the reasons stated in my dissenting opinion in Brewer v. Williams, 430 U.S. 387 (1977); but given that judgment and the Court's opinion in Brewer, I join the opinion of the Court in the present case.
<concur author="BURGER" text="TRUE">
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE BURGER, concurring in the judgment.
Since the result is not inconsistent with Miranda v. Arizona, 384 U.S. 436 (1966), I concur in the judgment.
The meaning of Miranda has become reasonably clear and law enforcement practices have adjusted to its strictures; I would neither overrule Miranda, disparage it, nor extend it at this late date.  I fear, however, that the rationale in Parts II-A and II-B of the Court's opinion will not clarify the tension between this holding and Brewer v. Williams, 430 U.S. 387 (1977), and our other cases.  It may introduce new elements of uncertainty;  under the Court's test, a police officer, in the brief time available, apparently must evaluate the suggestibility and susceptibility of an accused.  See, e. g., ante, at 302, n. 8.  Few, if any, police officers are competent to make the kind of evaluation seemingly contemplated; even a psychiatrist asked to express an expert opinion on these aspects of a suspect in custody would very likely employ extensive questioning and observation to make the judgment now charged to police officers.
Trial judges have enough difficulty discerning the boundaries and nuances flowing from post-Miranda opinions, and we do not clarify that situation today. *
<dissent author="MARSHALL_T" text="TRUE">
DISSENT BY: MARSHALL; STEVENS
MR. JUSTICE MARSHALL,  with whom MR. JUSTICE BRENNAN joins, dissenting.
I am substantially in agreement with the Court's definition of "interrogation" within the meaning of Miranda v. Arizona, 384 U.S. 436 (1966). In my view, the Miranda safeguards apply whenever police conduct is intended or likely to produce a response from a suspect in custody. As I read the Court's opinion, its definition of "interrogation" for Miranda purposes is equivalent, for practical purposes, to my formulation, since it contemplates that "where a police practice is designed to elicit an incriminating response from the accused, it is unlikely that the practice will not also be one which the police should have known was reasonably likely to have that effect." Ante, at 302, n. 7.  Thus, the Court requires an objective inquiry into the likely effect of police conduct on a typical individual, taking into account any special susceptibility of the suspect to certain kinds of pressure of which the police know or have reason to know.
I am utterly at a loss, however, to understand how this objective standard as applied to the facts before us can rationally lead to the conclusion that there was no interrogation. Innis was arrested at 4:30 a. m., handcuffed, searched, advised of his rights, and placed in the back seat of a patrol car.  Within a short time he had been twice more advised of his rights and driven away in a four-door sedan with three police officers. Two officers sat in the front seat and one sat beside Innis in the back seat. Since the car traveled no more than a mile before Innis agreed to point out the location of the murder weapon, Officer Gleckman must have begun almost immediately to talk about the search for the shotgun.
The Court attempts to characterize Gleckman's statements as "no more than a few offhand remarks" which could not reasonably have been expected to elicit a response.  Ante, at 303.  If the statements had been addressed to respondent, it would be impossible to draw such a conclusion.  The simple message of the "talking back and forth" between Gleckman and McKenna was that they had to find the shotgun to avert a child's death.
One can scarcely imagine a stronger appeal to the conscience of a suspect -- any suspect -- than the assertion that if the weapon is not found an innocent person will be hurt or killed.  And not just any innocent person, but an innocent child -- a little girl -- a helpless, handicapped little girl on her way to school. The notion that such an appeal could not be expected to have any effect unless the suspect were known to have some special interest in handicapped children verges on the ludicrous.  As a matter of fact, the appeal to a suspect to confess for the sake of others, to "display some evidence of decency and honor," is a classic interrogation technique.  See, e. g., F. Inbau & J. Reid, Criminal Interrogation and Confessions 60-62 (2d ed. 1967).
Gleckman's remarks would obviously have constituted interrogation if they had been explicitly directed to respondent, and the result should not be different because they were nominally addressed to McKenna.  This is not a case where police officers speaking among themselves are accidentally overheard by a suspect.  These officers were "talking back and forth" in close quarters with the handcuffed suspect, * traveling past the very place where they believed the weapon was located.  They knew respondent would hear and attend to their conversation, and they are chargeable with knowledge of and responsibility for the pressures to speak which they created.
I firmly believe that this case is simply and aberration, and that in future cases the Court will apply the standard adopted today in accordance with its plain meaning.
<dissent author="STEVENS" text="TRUE">
MR. JUSTICE STEVENS, dissenting.
An original definition of an old term coupled with an original finding of fact on a cold record makes it possible for this Court to vacate the judgment of the Supreme Court of Rhode Island.  That court, on the basis of the facts in the record before it, concluded that members of the Providence, R. I., police force had interrogated respondent, who was clearly in custody at the time, in the absence of counsel after he had requested counsel.  In my opinion the state court's conclusion that there was interrogation rests on a proper interpretation of both the facts and the law; thus, its determination that the products of the interrogation were inadmissible at trial should be affirmed.
The undisputed facts can be briefly summarized.  Based on information that respondent, armed with a sawed-off shotgun, had just robbed a cabdriver in the vicinity of Rhode Island College, a number of Providence police officers began a thorough search of the area in the early morning of January 17, 1975.  One of them arrested respondent without any difficulty at about 4:30 a. m.  Respondent did not then have the shotgun in his possession and presumably had abandoned it, or hidden it, shortly before he was arrested. Within a few minutes, at least a dozen officers were on the scene. App. 37.  It is fair to infer that an immediate search for the missing weapon was a matter of primary importance.
When a police captain arrived, he repeated the Miranda warnings that a patrolman and a sergeant had already given to respondent, and respondent said he wanted an attorney.  The captain then ordered two officers who were assigned to a "caged wagon" to transport respondent to the central station, and ordered a third officer to ride in the back seat with respondent.  While the wagon was en route to the station,  one of the officers, Officer Gleckman, stated that there was a school for handicapped children in the vicinity and "God forbid" one of them should find the shotgun and hurt herself. 1 As a result of this statement, respondent told the officers that he was willing to show them where the gun was hidden. 2 The wagon returned to the scene and respondent helped the officers locate the gun.
After a suppression hearing, the trial court assumed, without deciding, that Officer Gleckman's statement constituted interrogation. The court nevertheless allowed the shotgun and testimony concerning respondent's connection to it into evidence on the ground that respondent had waived his Miranda rights when he consented to help police locate the gun. On appeal from respondent's conviction for kidnaping, robbery and murder, the Rhode Island Supreme Court held that Officer Gleckman's statement constituted impermissible interrogation and rejected the trial court's waiver analysis.  It therefore reversed respondent's conviction and remanded for a new trial.  Today, the Court reverses the   Rhode Island court's resolution of the interrogation issue, creating a new definition of that term and holding, as a matter of law, that the statement at issue in this case did not constitute interrogation.
I
As the Court recognizes, Miranda v. Arizona, 384 U.S. 436, makes it clear that, once respondent requested an attorney, he had an absolute right to have any type of interrogation cease until an attorney was present. 3 As it also recognizes,  Miranda requires that the term "interrogation" be broadly construed to include "either express questioning or its functional equivalent." Ante, at 300-301. 4 In my view any statement that would normally be understood by the average listener as calling for a response is the functional equivalent of a direct question, whether or not it is punctuated by a question mark.  The Court, however, takes a much narrower view.  It holds that police conduct is not the "functional equivalent" of direct questioning unless the police should have known that what they were saying or doing was likely to elicit an incriminating response from the suspect. 5 This holding represents a plain departure from the principles set forth in Miranda.
In Miranda the Court required the now-familiar warnings to be given to suspects prior to custodial interrogation in order to dispel the atmosphere of coercion that necessarily accompanies such interrogations. In order to perform that function effectively, the warnings must be viewed by both the police and the suspect as a correct and binding statement of their respective rights. 6 Thus, if, after being told that he has a right to have an attorney present during interrogation, a suspect chooses to cut off questioning until counsel can be obtained, his choice must be "scrupulously honored" by the police.  See Michigan v. Mosley, 423 U.S. 96, 104; id., at 110, n. 2 (WHITE, J., concurring in result).  At the least this must mean that the police are prohibited from making deliberate attempts to elicit statements from the suspect. 7 Yet the Court is unwilling to characterize all such attempts as "interrogation," noting only that "where a police practice is designed to elicit an incriminating response from the accused, it is unlikely that the practice will not also be one which the police should have known was reasonably   likely to have that effect." 8 Ante, at 302, n. 7.
From the suspect's point of view, the effectiveness of the warnings depends on whether it appears that the police are scrupulously honoring his rights. Apparent attempts to elicit information from a suspect after he has invoked his right to cut off questioning necessarily demean that right and tend to reinstate the imbalance between police and suspect that the Miranda warnings are designed to correct. 9 Thus, if the rationale for requiring those warnings in the first place is to be respected, any police conduct or statements that would appear to a reasonable person in the suspect's position to call for a response must be considered "interrogation." 10
In short, in order to give full protection to a suspect's right to be free from any interrogation at all, the definition of "interrogation" must include any police statement or conduct that has the same purpose or effect as a direct question.  Statements that appear to call for a response from the suspect, as well as those that are designed to do so, should be considered interrogation. By prohibiting only those relatively few statements or actions that a police officer should know are likely to elicit an incriminating response, the Court today accords a suspect considerably less protection.  Indeed,   since I suppose most suspects are unlikely to incriminate themselves even when questioned directly, this new definition will almost certainly exclude every statement that is not punctuated with a question mark from the concept of "interrogation." 11
The difference between the approach required by a faithful adherence to Miranda and the stinted test applied by the Court today can be illustrated by comparing three different ways in which Officer Gleckman could have communicated his fears about the possible dangers posed by the shotgun to handicapped children. He could have:
(1) directly asked Innis:
Will you please tell me where the shotgun is so we can protect handicapped schoolchildren from danger?
(2) announced to the other officers in the wagon:
If the man sitting in the back seat with me should decide to tell us where the gun is, we can protect handicapped children from danger.
or (3) stated to the other officers:
It would be too bad if a little handicapped girl would pick up the gun that this man left in the area and maybe kill herself.
In my opinion, all three of these statements should be considered interrogation because all three appear to be designed to elicit a response from anyone who in fact knew where the gun was located. 12 Under the Court's test, on the other hand, the form of the statements would be critical.  The third statement would not be interrogation because in the Court's view there was no reason for Officer Gleckman to believe that Innis was susceptible to this type of an implied appeal, ante, at 302; therefore, the statement would not be reasonably likely to elicit an incriminating response. Assuming that this is true, see infra, at 314-315, then it seems to me that the first two statements, which would be just as unlikely to elicit such a response, should also not be considered interrogation. But, because the first statement is clearly an express question, it would be considered interrogation under the Court's test.  The second statement, although just as clearly a deliberate appeal to Innis to reveal the location of the gun, would presumably not be interrogation because (a) it was not in form a direct question and (b) it does not fit within the "reasonably likely to elicit an incriminating response" category that applies to indirect interrogation.
As this example illustrates, the Court's test creates an incentive for   police to ignore a suspect's invocation of his rights in order to make continued attempts to extract information from him.  If a suspect does not appear to be susceptible to a particular type of psychological pressure, 13 the police are apparently free to exert that pressure on him despite his request for counsel, so long as they are careful not to punctuate their statements with question marks.  And if, contrary to all reasonable expectations, the suspect makes an incriminating statement, that statement can be used against him at trial.  The Court thus turns Miranda's unequivocal rule against any interrogation at all into a trap in which unwary suspects may be caught by police deception.
II
Even if the Court's new definition of the term "interrogation" provided a proper standard for deciding this case, I find it remarkable that the Court should undertake the initial task of applying its new standard to the facts of the present case.  As noted above, the trial judge did not decide whether Officer Gleckman had interrogated respondent.  Assuming, arguendo, that he had, the judge concluded that respondent had waived his request for counsel by offering to help find the gun. The Rhode Island Supreme Court disagreed on the waiver questions, 14 and expressly concluded that interrogation had occurred.  Even if the Rhode Island court might have reached a different conclusion under the Court's new definition, I do not believe we should exclude it from participating in a review of the actions taken by the Providence police.  Indeed, given the creation of a new standard of decision at this stage of the litigation, the proper procedure would be to remand to the trial court for findings on the basis of evidence directed at the new standard.
In any event, I think the Court is clearly wrong in holding, as a matter of law, that Officer Gleckman should not have realized that his statement was likely to elicit an incriminating response. The Court implicitly assumes that, at least in the absence of a lengthy harangue, a criminal suspect will not be likely to respond to indirect appeals to his humanitarian impulses.  It then goes on to state that the officers in this case had no reason to believe that respondent would be unusually susceptible to such appeals.  Ante, at 302.  Finally, although the significance of the officer's intentions is not clear under its objective test, the Court states in a footnote that the record "in no way suggests" that Officer Gleckman's remarks were designed to elicit a response.  Ante, at 303, n. 9.
The Court's assumption that criminal suspects are not susceptible to appeals to conscience is directly contrary to the teachings of police interrogation manuals, which recommend appealing to a suspect's sense of morality as a standard and often successful interrogation technique. 15 Surely the practical experience embodied in such manuals should not be ignored in a case such as this in which the record is devoid of any evidence -- one way or the other -- as to the susceptibility of suspects in general or of Innis in particular.
Moreover, there is evidence in the record to support the view that Officer Gleckman's statement was intended to elicit a response from Innis.  Officer Gleckman, who was not regularly assigned to the caged wagon, was directed by a police captain to ride with respondent to the police station.  Although there is a dispute in the testimony,  it appears that Gleckman may well have been riding in the back seat with Innis. 16 The record does not explain why, notwithstanding   the fact that respondent was handcuffed, unarmed, and had offered no resistance when arrested by an officer acting alone, the captain ordered Officer Gleckman to ride with respondent. 17 It is not inconceivable that two professionally trained police officers concluded that a few well-chosen remarks might induce respondent to disclose the whereabouts of the shotgun. 18 This conclusion becomes even more plausible in light of the emotionally charged words chosen by Officer Gleckman ("God forbid" that a "little girl" should find the gun and hurt herself). 19
III
Under my view of the correct standard, the judgment of the Rhode Island Supreme Court should be affirmed because the   statements made within Innis' hearing were as likely to elicit a response as a direct question.  However, even if I were to agree with the Court's much narrower standard, I would disagree with its disposition of this particular case because the Rhode Island courts should be given an opportunity to apply the new standard to the facts of this case.
