OPINION
MR. JUSTICE STEVENS delivered the opinion of the Court.
On September 2, 1974,   following almost a decade of studying the Nation's private pension plans, Congress enacted the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974 (ERISA), 88 Stat. 829, 29 U. S. C. § 1001 et seq.  As a predicate for this comprehensive and reticulated statute, 1 Congress made detailed findings which recited, in part, "that the continued well-being and security of millions of employees and their dependents are directly affected by these plans;  that owing to the termination of plans before requisite funds have been accumulated, employees and their beneficiaries have been deprived of anticipated benefits. . . ." ERISA § 2 (a), 29 U. S. C. § 1001 (a).  As one of the means of protecting the interests of beneficiaries, Title IV of ERISA created a plan termination insurance program that became effective in successive stages.  The question in this case is whether former employees of petitioner with vested interests in a plan that terminated the day before much of ERISA became fully effective are covered by the insurance program notwithstanding a provision in the plan limiting their benefits to the assets in the pension fund.
Stated in statutory terms, the question is whether a plan provision that limits otherwise defined, vested benefits to the amounts that can be provided by the assets of the fund prevents such benefits from being characterized as "nonforfeitable" within the meaning of § 4022 (a) of ERISA, 29 U. S. C. § 1322 (a). 2 If the benefits are "nonforfeitable," they are insured by the Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation (PBGC) under Title IV. 3 And if insurance is payable to the former employees, the PBGC has a statutory right under § 4062 (b) to reimbursement from the employer. 4 It was petitioner's interest in avoiding liability for such reimbursement that gave rise to this action for declaratory and injunctive relief.
The relevant facts are undisputed.  In 1960, pursuant to a collective-bargaining agreement, petitioner established a pension plan covering employees represented by the respondent union at its Chicago plant.  The   plan, as amended from time to time, provided for the payment of monthly benefits computed on the basis of age and years of service at the time of retirement. 5 Benefits became "vested" -- that is to say, the   employee's right to the benefit would survive a termination of his employment -- after either 10 or 15 years of service.  The 15-year vesting provisions would not have complied with the minimum vesting standards in Title I of ERISA that were to become effective on January 1, 1976, 6 the day after termination of the plan.
Petitioner agreed to, and did, make regular contributions sufficient to cover accruing liabilities, to pay administrative expenses, and to amortize past service liability over a 30-year period. 7 Consistent with the agreement and with accepted actuarial practice, it was anticipated that the plan would not be completely funded until 1990.
Petitioner retained the right to terminate the plan when the collective-bargaining agreement expired merely by giving 90 days' notice of intent to do so.  The agreement specified that upon termination the available funds, after payment of expenses, would be distributed to beneficiaries, classified by age and seniority, but only to the extent that assets were   available.  The critical provision of the agreement, Art. V, § 3, stated:
"Benefits provided for herein shall be only such benefits as can be provided by the assets of the fund.  In the event of termination of this Plan, there shall be no liability or obligation on the part of the Company to make any further contributions to the Trustee except such contributions, if any, as on the effective date of such termination, may then be accrued but unpaid." App. 24. 8
In 1975 petitioner decided to close its Chicago plant.  Its collective-bargaining agreement expired on October 31, 1975, and it terminated the pension plan covering the persons employed at that plant on December 31, 1975, the day before ERISA would have required significant changes in at least the vesting provisions of the plan.  At that time 135 employees had accrued benefits with an average value of approximately $ 77 per month.  Those benefits were concededly "vested in a contractual sense." 9 The assets in the fund were sufficient to pay only about 35% of the vested benefits.
In 1976 petitioner filed an action against the PBGC, seeking a declaration that it has no liability under ERISA for any failure of the plan to pay all of the vested benefits in full, and an order enjoining the PBGC from taking actions inconsistent with that declaration.  The District Court accepted petitioner's contentions that the limitation of liability clause in the plan was valid on the date of termination, that the clause prevented the benefits at issue from being characterized as "nonforfeitable," and that petitioner was therefore entitled to summary judgment.  436 F.Supp. 1334 (ND Ill. 1977).
The Court of Appeals for the Seventh Circuit reversed.  592 F.2d 947 (1979). Relying on the definition of "nonforfeitable" in Title I of ERISA, 10 the court concluded that the limitation of liability clause merely affected the extent to which the benefits could be collected, without qualifying the employees' rights against the plan.  This conclusion was buttressed by a comprehensive review of the legislative history in which Judge Sprecher noted that the words "vested" and "nonforfeitable" had been used interchangeably throughout the congressional reports and debates, that the specific purpose of Title IV insurance was to protect employees from the kind of risk presented here (insufficient funds in the plan to cover vested benefits at termination), and that a contrary holding "would totally subvert the Congressional intent." 11
Having construed the statute as it did, the Court of Appeals was required to confront petitioner's constitutional argument that the imposition of a retroactive liability for the payment of unfunded, vested benefits that was not assumed under the collective-bargaining agreement, violates the Due Process Clause of the Fifth Amendment.  The Court of Appeals agreed that ERISA was not wholly prospective in that it applies to pension plans in existence before the effective date of the Act.  It concluded, however, that Congress had adequately tempered the Act's burdens on employers and that those burdens were sufficiently justified by the public purposes supporting the legislation. 12
The petition for certiorari sought review of both the constitutional question and the question whether the statute had been properly construed to impose continuing liability on an employer that had lawfully terminated its plan prior to the effective date of the minimum vesting standards contained in Title I of ERISA.  We granted certiorari, but limited our review to the statutory question.  442 U.S. 940.
Petitioner urges us to adopt a construction of the statute that would avoid the necessity of confronting constitutional questions, 13 and correctly points out that new rules applying to pension funds "should not be applied retroactively unless the legislature has plainly commanded that result." Los Angeles Dept. of Water & Power v. Manhart, 435 U.S. 702, 721. But petitioner's argument for reversal relies primarily on the language of the statutory definition of "nonforfeitable" contained in Title I, see n. 10, supra.  If the Title I definition determines which benefits are insured under Title IV, benefits are not insured unless they are "unconditional" and "legally enforceable against the plan."  Since petitioner's plan expressly states that benefits "shall be only such benefits as can be provided by the assets of the fund," petitioner argues that those elements of the statutory definition are not satisfied.  Therefore, the benefits are forfeitable and necessarily uninsurable. Thus, petitioner concludes, it is not liable to anyone under the statute for the fund's inability to cover all vested benefits.  Petitioner submits that this result is consonant with Congress' decision to postpone the effective date of the minimum vesting and funding requirements of Title I until January 1, 1976. Petitioner interprets that postponement as having been intended, among other things, to allow employers the opportunity to avoid the harsh consequences of the statute's retroactive application by freely terminating their plans at any time prior to that date.
We must reject petitioner's argument.  We first note that the plan provision on which petitioner relies, supra, at 365, read as a whole, merely disclaims direct employer liability and imposes no condition on the benefits.  See n. 8, supra, and n. 17, infra. Thus, petitioner's argument is not supported by a purely literal reading of the definition on which it relies and is inconsistent with the clear language, structure and purpose of Title IV.  Since we construe petitioner's plan as containing only an employer liability disclaimer clause, we cannot accept its statutory argument without virtually eviscerating Title IV as applied to plans terminating prior to January 1, 1976.  Such a result not only would be contrary to the four-stage phase-in of the program of insurance and employer liability designed by Congress, but also would impose an extraordinarily harsh and plainly unintended burden on employers by operation of Title I after that date.  We first consider petitioner's textual argument divorced from the statute as a whole; we next examine the structure and history of Title IV; and we finally explain how petitioner's proposed construction would distort the orderly phase-in of the statutory program designed by Congress.
I
The statutory issue presented in the case is whether petitioner's employees' benefits are "nonforfeitable . . .  under the terms of a plan" within the meaning of § 4022(a) of the Act.  See n. 2, supra.  Petitioner concedes that its employees' benefits are "vested in a contractural sense." The question is whether such benefits were insured under Title IV when the plan was terminated even though the plan expressly provided that petitioner was not liable if the plan's assets were insufficient to cover them.
The key statutory term, "nonforfeitable benefits," is nowhere defined in Title IV.  Petitioner relies on the definition of "nonforfeitable" in Title I, § 3 (19), see n. 10, supra.  But definitions in that section are not necessarily applicable to Title IV, because they are limited by the introductory phrase, "For purposes of this title." 14 Nothing in the statute or its legislative history tells us why the Title I definition of "nonforfeitable" is not made expressly applicable to Title IV.  The legislative history does disclose, however, that earlier versions of what finally emerged as the Title I definition would unquestionably have covered the benefits at stake in this litigation, and that those earlier versions applied to the entire Act including the termination insurance provisions.  15 If we assume that the original intent to have the definition apply to the entire statute survived the unexplained changes in the form of the definition, we should likewise assume that no change was intended in the substantive coverage of the insurance program. Indeed, as we shall demonstrate, 16 the latter assumption is supported by the legislative history. But even assuming, arguendo, that the Title I definition controls and even if the legislative history were less clear than it is, three aspects of the Title I definition itself refute petitioner's argument that the "nonforfeitable" character of a participant's rights should be determined by focusing on whether the employer is liable for any deficiency in the fund's assets.
First, the principal subject of the definition is the word "claim";   it is the claim to the benefit, rather than the benefit itself, that must be "unconditional" and "legally enforceable against the plan." It is self-evident that a claim may remain valid and legally enforceable even though, as a   practical matter, it may not be collectible from the assets of the obligor.
Second,   the statutory definition refers to enforceability against "the plan."  The only practical significance of the contractual provision limiting liability is to provide protection for the employer.  With or without such a clause, the pension fund could pay no more than the amount of assets on hand.  Giving the employer protection against liability does not qualify the beneficiary's rights against the plan itself. 17
Third,   the term "forfeiture" normally connotes a total loss in consequence of some event rather than a limit on the value of a person's rights.  Each of the examples of a plan provision that is expressly described as not causing a forfeiture listed in § 203 (a)(3), see n. 10, supra, describes an event -- such as death or temporary re-employment -- that might otherwise be construed as causing a forfeiture of the entire benefit.  It is therefore surely consistent with the statutory definition of "nonforfeitable" to view it as describing the quality of the participant's right to a pension rather than a limit on the amount he may collect.
This reading of the Title I definition accords with the interpretation of the term "nonforfeitable" in Title IV adopted by the agency responsible for administering the Title IV insurance program. The PBGC has promulgated regulations containing a completely unambiguous definition of the term 18 and has been paying benefits to over 12,000 participants in terminated plans on the basis of this understanding of its statutory responsibilities. 19 We surely may not reject this contemporary construction of the statute by the PBGC 20 without a careful examination of Title IV and its underlying legislative history to see what benefits Congress intended to insure.
II
One of Congress' central purposes in enacting this complex legislation was to prevent the "great personal tragedy" 21 suffered by employees whose vested benefits are not paid when pension plans are terminated. 22 Congress found "that owing to the inadequacy of current minimum standards, the soundness and stability of plans with respect to adequate funds to pay promised benefits may be endangered; that owing to the termination of plans before requisite funds have been accumulated, employees and their beneficiaries have been deprived of anticipated benefits." ERISA § 2(a), 88 Stat. 832, 29 U. S. C. § 1001 (a).  Congress wanted to correct this condition by making sure that if a worker has been promised a defined pension benefit upon retirement -- and if he has fulfilled whatever conditions are required to obtain a vested benefit -- he actually will receive it.  The termination insurance program is a major part of Congress' response to the problem.  Congress provided for a minimum funding schedule and prescribed standards of conduct for plan administrators to make as certain as possible that pension fund assets would be adequate.  But if a plan nonetheless terminates without sufficient assets to pay all vested benefits, the PBGC is required to pay them -- within certain dollar limitations not applicable here -- 23 from funds established by that corporation.
Throughout the entire legislative history, from the initial proposals to the Conference Report, the legislators consistently described the class of pension benefits to be insured as "vested benefits." 24 Petitioner   recognizes, as it must, that the terms "vested" and "nonforfeitable" were   used synonymously. 25   Since Title IV neither uses nor defines the term "vested," 26 it is reasonable to infer that the term "nonforfeitable" was intended to describe benefits that were generally considered "vested" prior to the statute.  And it is clear that the normal usage in the pension field was that even if the actual realization of expected benefits might depend on the sufficiency of plan assets, they were nonetheless considered vested. 27
There is no evidence that Congress intended to exclude otherwise vested benefits from the insurance program solely because the employer had disclaimed liability for any deficiency in the pension fund. Indeed, there is strong evidence to the contrary.  Congress understood that pension plans ordinarily contained disclaimer provisions of the sort petitioner relies on here. 28 Given that understanding, the Title IV insurance program would have been wholly inapplicable to most pension plans.  Since only the few plans in which the employer had not disclaimed liability would have been covered, the only purpose in providing any insurance at all would be to protect employees against the risk of employer insolvency. 29
But § 4062 (b)(2), 29 U. S. C. § 1362 (b)(2), see n. 4, supra -- the reimbursement provision -- demonstrates that insolvency was certainly not the only focus of Congress' concern. The very fact that § 4062 (b)(2) requires employers to reimburse the PBGC for the payment of insured benefits makes it clear that Congress not only was worried about plan terminations resulting from business failures but also was concerned about the termination of underfunded plans by solvent employers. 30 Of even greater   significance is the provision limiting the amount of employer liability for reimbursement to 30% of the employer's net worth. The 30% limit plainly contemplates the situation in which the employer has disclaimed direct liability; for if the employer were directly liable to the employees for the full amount of any funding deficiency, the 30% limitation would serve no useful purpose. 31 That this 30% limit would be meaningless unless the employer has disclaimed direct liability surely demonstrates that Congress did not intend such a disclaimer to render otherwise vested benefits "forfeitable" within the meaning of § 4022. 32
Petitioner's reading of the statute would limit any meaningful application of the insurance program prior to January 1, 1976, to only those cases involving insolvent employers that had not disclaimed direct liability.  Since the legislative history clearly shows that Congress intended to cover terminations by solvent employers, and further shows that disclaimer clauses were widely used, petitioner is ultimately contending that Congress did not intend to create any significant employer reimbursement liability prior to January 1, 1976.  This argument, however, is foreclosed by a consideration of the statutory provisions for successive increases in the burdens associated with plan terminations. Congress clearly did not offer employers an opportunity to make cost-free terminations at any time prior to January 1, 1976.  Quite the contrary, one   of the express purposes of ERISA was to discourage plan terminations. See n. 3, supra.
III
We have previously noted the care with which Congress approached the problem of retroactivity in ERISA.  See Los Angeles Dept. of Water & Power v. Manhart, 435 U.S., at 721-722, n. 40.  Congress provided that Title IV should have an increasingly severe yet carefully limited impact on employers during four successive periods of time for single-employer plans.  During each of these periods, however, it extended the same insurance protection to those beneficiaries of terminated plans having vested benefits under the terms of the plans.
Title IV became effective as soon as ERISA was enacted on September 2, 1974, § 4082 (a), 29 U. S. C. § 1381 (a), and indeed was expressly made partially retroactive in order to provide insurance coverage to participants whose plans terminated after June 30, 1974, § 4082 (b), 29 U. S. C. § 1381 (b).  The measure of coverage, at the outset, was the difference between the employee's vested benefits under the terms of the plan (subject to the dollar limitations in § 4022 (b)(3), see n. 23, supra) and the amount that could be paid from the terminated plan's assets.  However, the employer liability provision, § 4062, was not made effective at all during this initial period -- June 30 to September 2, 1974.  The PBGC was thus given no right to recover any part of the insured deficiencies from employers that terminated their plans before the Act became effective. 33
The second period lasted for 270 days after the enactment of ERISA, or until the end of May 1975.  Again, the PBGC provided insurance coverage for most underfunded nonforfeitable benefits under the terms of a pension plan terminated during this period.  But two important additional provisions became effective:  § 4062 (b), the section creating employer liability to the PBGC, and § 4004 (f)(4), 88 Stat. 1009, 29 U. S. C. § 1304 (f)(4). 34 The latter authorized the PBGC to waive entirely, or to reduce, its right to recover insurance payments from any employer who could establish unreasonable hardship in situations in which the employer was not able, as a practical matter, to continue its plan in effect. Section 4004 (f)(4) unequivocally demonstrates that Congress had deliberately imposed a new liability upon an employer that terminated its plan during the first nine months of the operation of the Act.  If the employer had a pre-existing contractual liability, there would have been no effective way for the PBGC to mitigate it in hardship cases, since the PBGC could not stop the employees from suing the employer   directly.  Moreover, there would have been no need for insurance except in cases of insolvency, and in such cases there would have been no practical reason for mitigation because recovery from the employer would have been impossible in any event.  On the other hand, in the typical case in which the employer had protected itself from any contractual liability, the only possible source of employer liability was § 4062's provision for the recovery by the PBGC of insurance payments made on account of unsatisfied nonforfeitable benefits. Petitioner's definition of nonforfeitable benefits as excluding from Title IV coverage all benefits for which the employer is not directly  liable would have made § 4004 (f)(4) totally inapplicable in the only cases in which it could have possibly made any difference.
The third period lasted for about seven months until December 31, 1975, the termination date of petitioner's plan.  Having terminated more than 270 days after the Act became effective, petitioner was not eligible for a hardship waiver.  Its contingent liability, however, was smaller than it would have been had it terminated its plan in the fourth period.  During the third period, the terms of the pension plan still measured the outer limits of the unfunded liability.  Had petitioner waited another day to terminate, Title I's vesting standards would have become effective, thereby increasing the number of employees whose benefits would have become vested, see n. 6, supra,   and therefore insurable under Title IV.  Petitioner avoided this additional liability by terminating in the third period.
Under petitioner's reading of the statute, there was a much more dramatic difference between the third period and the fourth period than we have just described.  The argument that an employer liability disclaimer clause renders a plan's benefits forfeitable has two draconian consequences: first, it makes the Title IV insurance program entirely inapplicable to most terminations before January 1, 1976; second, it makes such disclaimer clauses entirely invalid on and after that date.  This latter conclusion flows directly from Title I's command that all covered pension plans provide nonforfeitable benefits on and after January 1, 1976.  See n. 10, supra.
But Congress plainly did not intend to prevent employers from limiting their potential direct liability to their employees. There is not a word in the statute or its legislative history suggesting that Congress ever intended to outlaw the use of such clauses. 35 On the contrary, the inclusion of a limit on an employer's contingent reimbursement liability to the PBGC measured by 30% of its net worth would be inexplicable if Congress had intended to deny employers any right to place a contractual limit on their direct liability to their employees.  We stress that petitioner's construction of the statute would therefore render meaningless § 4062 (b)'s 30% net worth limit on the employer's contingent liability to the PBGC for all terminations occurring after January 1, 1976.  In light of the careful attention paid to when various provisions were to be effective, Congress surely would have made explicit any intent to limit this important provision to a mere transitionary role.  It bears emphasis that Congress declined to adopt the suggestion that corporate assets be committed to guarantee any pension obligations which exist at termination. 36 The 30% provision was designed as a softer measure. 37
In sum, petitioner reads the statute as authorizing cost-free terminations prior to January 1, 1976, and full liability for all promised benefits thereafter with neither dollar nor net worth limitations.  We are convinced that Congress envisioned a quite different scheme.  Congress intended to discourage unnecessary terminations even during the phase-in period, and to place a reasonable ceiling on the potential cost of terminations during the principal life of the Act -- the period after January 1, 1976.  Although the impact of our holding on petitioner and others who lawfully terminated plans during the second half of 1975 may seem harsh, we have no doubt as to what Congress intended.  We cannot give the statute a special reading for that brief period without distorting it for the remainder of its statutory life.
Accordingly, the judgment is
Affirmed.
<dissent author="STEWART" text="TRUE">
DISSENT BY: STEWART; POWELL
MR. JUSTICE STEWART, with whom MR. JUSTICE WHITE, MR. JUSTICE POWELL, and MR. JUSTICE REHNQUIST join, dissenting.
Title IV of the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974 (ERISA), 29 U. S. C. § 1301 et seq., establishes a system of insurance to cover the termination of private pension plans.  Under that Title, the Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation (PBGC) must "guarantee the payment of all nonforfeitable benefits . . . under the terms of a  plan which terminates." 1 In turn, the PBGC may sue the company that maintained the plan for such part of the "guaranteed" payment as exceeded on the date of termination the value of the plan's assets. 2
The Nachman plan was terminated on December 31, 1975, several months after Title IV had become fully applicable to pension plans such as the one maintained by the petitioner. 3 The issue in this case is, therefore, a narrow one: Whether, "under the terms of  plan," the plan's participants were entitled on the date of termination to "nonforfeitable benefits" in excess of the value of the funds that were then held by the plan. 4
ERISA defines a "nonforfeitable benefit" as follows: 5
"   The term 'nonforfeitable' when used with respect to a   pension benefit or right means a claim obtained by a participant or his beneficiary to that of an immediate or deferred benefit under a pension plan which arises from the participant's service, which is unconditional, and which is legally enforceable against the plan." 6
No contention is made in this case that the benefits at issue did not arise from services rendered by the plan's participants.  Rather, the petitioner's argument is that, in the words of the statute, "under the terms of  plan," the contested benefits were both "" and/or "legally  against the plan."
For present purposes, only two provisions of the now-terminated Nachman plan need be considered.  First, a sentence in Art. V, § 3, stated: "Benefits provided for herein shall be only such benefits as can be provided by the assets of the Fund." Second, Art. X, § 3, stated:
"In the event of termination of the Plan, the assets then remaining in the Fund, after providing the accrued and anticipated expenses of the Plan and Fund . . . shall be allocated . . . to the extent that they shall be   sufficient, for the purposes of paying retirement benefits. . . ." (Emphasis added.) 7
These two provisions, neither of which was void on the date of termination, 8 rendered "conditional" every defined benefit set out in the plan.  On termination, a participant's right to any benefit defined in dollar terms was expressly hinged on the plan's ability to pay that amount.  Like any condition a plan might specifically place on a participant's entitlement to a defined retirement benefit, this asset-sufficiency condition deprived the Nachman plan's defined benefits of "nonforfeitable" status to the extent that such benefits could not be defrayed by the plan's assets. 9 The Court does not explain why an asset-sufficiency limitation expressly set out in a pension plan is not a "condition" for purposes of determining the "nonforfeitability" of the plan's pension benefits. 10
By reason of the cited sentences in Art. V, § 3, and Art. X, § 3, it must also be concluded that the only defined benefits of the plan which on termination were "legally enforceable against the plan" were those that were fully funded. Under contract law, a person is liable only for that which he has promised to pay.  The Nachman plan promised each participant that upon termination he would receive, not a particular retirement benefit defined in  dollar terms, but rather such a benefit only if it could be funded out of the plan's assets.
The Court notes that another sentence in Art. V, § 3, of the plan provided that, " the event of termination of this Plan, there shall be no liability or obligation on the part of the Company to make any further contributions to the Trustee except such contributions, if any, as on the effective date of such termination, may then be accrued but unpaid." But this sentence had an entirely different effect from that of the two provisions discussed above.  Since it only purported to limit the employer's liability to the plan and not the plan's obligation to the plan's participants, the sentence in question neither   made the benefits provided by the plan "" nor rendered them "legally  against the plan." The Court is, therefore, quite correct in concluding that the sentence in question did not render "forfeitable" any of the retirement benefits provided by the Nachman plan. 11 What the Court   misses is the world of difference between the employer disclaimer clause and the provisions in the plan that limited what the plan itself promised to provide its participants.  Only the latter made the retirement benefits "forfeitable" for purposes of ERISA. 12
Three aspects of ERISA's legislative history strongly support this interpretation of the statutory scheme.  First, Congress discarded on its way to passing the Act a number of alternative definitions of the benefits to be insured, several of which if enacted would have read very much like the definition the PBGC has adopted and which the Court now holds embodies Congress' true intent. 13 Few principles of statutory construction are more compelling than the proposition that Congress does not intend sub silentio to enact statutory language that it has earlier discarded in favor of other language.  See Gulf Oil Corp. v. Copp Paving Co., 419 U.S. 186, 199-200.
Second, the Conference Report, in describing the bill that finally was enacted, stated that "vested retirement benefits guaranteed by the plan . . . are to be covered" by the Act's insurance scheme.  H. R. Rep. No. 93-1280, p. 368 (1974), 3 Leg. Hist. 4635.  (Emphasis added.) Only a benefit that is unconditionally promised by a plan is a benefit "guaranteed" by that plan. 14
Third, Congress delayed the effective date of the Act's "minimum vesting standards" in order "to provide sufficient time for pension and profit-sharing retirement plans to adjust to the new vesting and funding standards, to make provision for additional costs which may be experienced, and to permit negotiated agreements to transpire. . . ." S. Rep. No. 93-127,   p. 36 (1973), 1 Leg. Hist.  622.  Disregarding this intent, the Court today effectively rewrites the Nachman plan to make it promise more than it actually did.
Nothing in the legislative history, on the other hand, truly supports the result reached by the Court.  The Court relies on the fact that the terms "nonforfeitable" and "vested" were often used interchangeably in the legislative materials.  This usage is said to be significant, because in the pension field a benefit is usually said to "vest" when a pension plan participant has fulfilled all the specified conditions for eligibility, such as age and length of service. The existence of other kinds of conditions, such as the sufficiency of the plan's assets, would not affect the determination of whether or not a benefit had "vested" in this traditional sense of the word.
But many of the statements in the legislative history relied upon by the Court were made in connection with proposed bills that were not enacted and whose express terms would have insured benefits "vested" in the traditional sense of the word.  See n. 13, supra.  These statements have no bearing on the present case, which concerns the construction of entirely different statutory language.  Many of the other statements in the legislative history noted by the Court were made with respect to the bill that originally passed the House of Representatives, quite a different document from the bill that later emerged from the Conference Committee and was enacted into law as ERISA.  The House bill provided that the insurance provision would cover only retirement benefits that were "nonforfeitable" by reason of the bill's minimum vesting standards.  H. R. 2, as passed by the House, 93d Cong., 2d Sess., §§ 203, 409 (b)(1) (1974), 3 Leg. Hist. 3973-3979, 4024.  See 2 id., at 3293, 3347-3348 (explanation by Chairman of House Committee on Education and Labor).  Under the legislation so proposed, there never would have been a time when the insurance scheme was in effect and a substantial portion of every plan's "vested" benefits were not also "nonforfeitable."
It was the Conference Committee that created the time gap involved in this case (September 2, 1974, through December 31, 1975) during which pension plans were subject to the Act's insurance program but not to its minimum vesting standards.  See H. R. Conf. Rep. No. 93-1280,  pp. 48, 245 (1974), 3 Leg. Hist. 4323, 4515.  In discussing the Conference Committee bill, certain Members of Congress also equated "vested" rights with "nonforfeitable" rights. 15 But there is no reason to suppose that these statements did not refer to the post-1975 operation of ERISA, when many benefits, "vested" in the traditional sense, also became "nonforfeitable" by reason of the Act's minimum vesting standards. 16
Finally, contrary to the Court's assertion, the construction that I would give to the Act would not render meaningless the decision of Congress to make Title IV fully applicable as of September 2, 1974.  That Title insured the following types of benefits provided by plans terminated between September 2, 1974, and December 31, 1975: (1) All benefits made expressly "nonforfeitable" by the terms of plans in existence on January 1, 1974; 17 and (2) at least 20% of the benefits required by the Act's "minimum vesting standards" to be "nonforfeitable" under the terms of plans created after January 1, 1974. 18
For all the reasons discussed, I respectfully dissent.
<dissent author="POWELL" text="TRUE">
MR. JUSTICE POWELL, dissenting.
I join MR. JUSTICE STEWART's dissenting opinion and add only a brief word.  The difference between the majority and dissenting opinions in this case turns almost entirely upon the construction of language in petitioner's pension plan. This plan is an agreement negotiated in good faith by the petitioner and the union representing employees covered by the plan.  Everyone concedes that the plan is a valid contract enforceable according to its terms, except to the extent that ERISA provides otherwise.  The petitioner lawfully terminated the plan on December 31, 1975.
It is perfectly clear, at least to me, that the plain language of the plan conditioned the employees' benefits in the event of termination upon the adequacy of the assets then remaining in the fund.  If ERISA had not been enacted, the respondent Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation acknowledges, the employees' benefits would have been limited by this condition.  The respondent contends, however, that ERISA -- and the respondent's own regulatory definition of "nonforfeitable" -- require a construction of the plan that neither the petitioner nor its employees intended.  I assume for present purposes that Congress could mandate this result.  But in the absence of a clear expression of congressional intent, I would not conclude that Congress meant to alter contractual arrangements between private parties.  For the reasons stated in the dissenting opinion, I find no such intent relevant to this case in either the ambiguous language of ERISA or its legislative history.
I add only that the decision today has little consequence beyond the resolution of this case.  As I read the opinions, the decision affects only pension plans terminated on or before December 31, 1975, that contained language substantially identical to the language in petitioner's plan.
