OPINION
MR. JUSTICE POWELL delivered the opinion of the Court.
The question in this case is whether a municipal zoning ordinance took appellants' property without just compensation in violation of the Fifth and Fourteenth Amendments.
I
After the appellants acquired five acres of unimproved land in the city of Tiburon, Cal., for residential development, the city was required by state law to prepare a general plan governing both land use and the development of open-space land.  Cal. Govt. Code Ann. §§ 65302 (a) and (e) (West Supp. 1979); see § 65563.  In response, the city adopted two ordinances that modified existing zoning requirements.  Tiburon, Cal., Ordinances Nos. 123 N. S. and 124 N. S. (June 28, 1973).  The zoning ordinances placed the appellants' property in "RPD-1," a Residential Planned Development and Open Space Zone. RPD-1 property may be devoted to one-family dwellings, accessory buildings, and open-space uses.  Density restrictions permit the appellants to build between one and five single-family residences on their 5-acre tract. The appellants never have sought approval for development of their land under the zoning ordinances. 1
The appellants filed a two-part complaint against the city in State Superior Court.  The first cause of action sought $ 2 million in damages for inverse condemnation. 2 The second cause of action requested a declaration that the zoning ordinances were facially unconstitutional.  The gravamen of both claims was the appellants' assertion that the city had taken their property without just compensation in violation of the Fifth and Fourteenth Amendments. The complaint alleged that land in Tiburon has greater value than any other suburban property in the State of California.  App. 3.  The ridgelands that appellants own "possess magnificent views of San Francisco Bay and the scenic surrounding areas  have the highest market values of all lands" in Tiburon.  Id., at 4.  Rezoning of the land "forever prevented  development for residential use. . . ." Id., at 5.  Therefore, the appellants contended, the city had "completely destroyed the value of  property for any purpose or use whatsoever. . . ." Id., at 7. 3
The city demurred, claiming that the complaint failed to state a cause of action. The Superior Court sustained the demurrer, 4 and the California Supreme Court affirmed.  24 Cal. 3d 266, 598 P. 2d 25 (1979). The State Supreme Court first considered the inverse condemnation claim.  It held that a landowner who challenges the constitutionality of a zoning ordinance may not "sue in inverse condemnation and thereby transmute an excessive use of the police power into a lawful taking for which compensation in eminent domain must be paid." Id., at 273, 598 P. 2d, at 28. The sole remedies for such a taking, the court concluded, are mandamus and declaratory judgment. Turning therefore to the appellants' claim for declaratory relief, the California Supreme Court held that the zoning ordinances had not deprived the appellants of their property   without compensation in violation of the Fifth Amendment. 5
We noted probable jurisdiction.  444 U.S. 1011 (1980). We now affirm the holding that the zoning ordinances on their face do not take the appellants' property without just compensation. 6
II
The Fifth Amendment guarantees that private property shall not "be taken for public use, without just compensation." The appellants' complaint framed the question as whether a zoning ordinance that prohibits all development of their land effects a taking under the Fifth and Fourteenth Amendments. The California Supreme Court rejected the appellants' characterization of the issue by holding, as a matter of state law, that the terms of the challenged ordinances allow the appellants to construct between one and five residences on their property.  The court did not consider whether the zoning ordinances would be unconstitutional if applied to prevent appellants from building five homes.  Because the appellants have not submitted a plan for development of their property as the ordinances permit, there is as yet no concrete controversy regarding the application of the specific zoning provisions.  See Socialist Labor Party v. Gilligan, 406 U.S. 583, 588 (1972). See also Goldwater v. Carter, 444 U.S. 996, 997 (1979) (POWELL, J., concurring).  Thus, the only question properly before us is whether the mere enactment  of the zoning ordinances constitutes a taking.
The application of a general zoning law to particular property effects a taking if the ordinance does not substantially advance legitimate state interests, see Nectow v. Cambridge, 277 U.S. 183, 188 (1928), or denies an owner economically viable use of his land, see Penn Central Transp. Co. v. New York City, 438 U.S. 104, 138, n. 36 (1978). The determination that governmental action constitutes a taking is, in essence, a determination that the public at large, rather than a single owner, must bear the burden of an exercise of state power in the public interest.  Although no precise rule determines when property has been taken, see Kaiser Aetna v. United States, 444 U.S. 164 (1979), the question necessarily requires a weighing of private and public interests.  The seminal decision in Euclid v. Ambler Co., 272 U.S. 365 (1926), is illustrative.  In that case, the landowner challenged the constitutionality of a municipal ordinance that restricted commercial development of his property.  Despite alleged diminution in value of the owner's land, the Court held that the zoning laws were facially constitutional.  They bore a substantial relationship to the public welfare, and their enactment inflicted no irreparable injury upon the landowner. Id., at 395-397.
In this case, the zoning ordinances substantially advance legitimate governmental goals.  The State of California has determined that the development of local open-space plans will discourage the "premature and unnecessary conversion of open-space land to urban uses." Cal. Govt. Code Ann. § 65561 (b) (West. Supp. 1979). 7 The specific zoning regulations at issue are exercises of the city's police power to protect the residents of Tiburon from the ill effects of urbanization. 8 Such governmental purposes long have been recognized as legitimate.  See Penn Central Transp. Co. v. New York City, supra, at 129; Village of Belle Terre v. Boraas, 416 U.S. 1, 9 (1974); Euclid v. Ambler Co., supra, at 394-395.
The ordinances place appellants' land in a zone limited to single-family dwellings, accessory buildings, and open-space uses.  Construction is not permitted until the builder submits a plan compatible with "adjoining patterns of development and open space." Tiburon, Cal., Ordinance No. 123 N. S. § 2 (F).  In passing upon a plan, the city also will consider how well the proposed development would preserve the surrounding environment and whether the density of new construction will be offset by adjoining open spaces. Ibid. The zoning ordinances benefit the appellants as well as the public by serving the city's interest in assuring careful and orderly development of residential property with provision for open-space areas.  There is no indication that the appellants' 5-acre tract is the only property affected by the ordinances. Appellants therefore will share with other owners the benefits and burdens of the city's exercise of its police power. In assessing the fairness of the zoning ordinances, these benefits must be considered along with any diminution in market value that the appellants might suffer.
Although the ordinances limit development, they neither prevent the best use of appellants' land, see United States v. Causby, 328 U.S. 256, 262, and n. 7 (1946), nor extinguish a fundamental attribute of ownership, see Kaiser Aetna v. United States, supra, at 179-180. The appellants have alleged that they wish to develop the land for residential purposes, that the land is the most expensive suburban property in the State, and that the best possible use of the land is residential.  App. 3-4.  The California Supreme Court has decided, as a matter of state law, that appellants may be permitted to build as many as five houses on their five acres of prime residential property. At this juncture, the appellants are free to pursue their reasonable investment expectations by submitting a development plan to local officials.  Thus, it cannot be said that the impact of general land-use regulations has denied   appellants the "justice and fairness" guaranteed by the Fifth and Fourteenth Amendments. See Penn Central Transp. Co. v. New York City, 438 U.S., at 124. 9
III
The State Supreme Court determined that the appellants could not recover damages for inverse condemnation even if the zoning ordinances constituted a taking. The court stated that only mandamus and declaratory judgment are remedies   available to such a landowner. Because no taking has occurred, we need not consider whether a State may limit the remedies available to a person whose land has been taken without just compensation.
The judgment of the Supreme Court of California is
Affirmed.
