OPINION
MR. JUSTICE STEVENS delivered the opinion of the Court.
In an action brought under 42 U. S. C. § 1983, the court, in its discretion, may allow the prevailing party to recover a reasonable attorney's fee as part of the award of costs. 1 The question presented by this petition is whether fees may be assessed against state officials after a case has been settled by the entry of a consent decree, without any determination that the plaintiff's constitutional rights have been violated.
Petitioner is responsible for the administration of Connecticut's Aid to Families with Dependent Children (AFDC), a federally funded public assistance program. 2 Respondent is a working recipient of AFDC benefits.  Under state and federal regulations, the amount of her benefits depends, in part, on her net earnings, which are defined as her wages minus certain work-related expenses. In 1975 respondent filed a complaint in the United States District Court for the District of Connecticut alleging that Connecticut's AFDC regulations denied her credit for substantial portions of her actual work-related expenses, 3 thus reducing the level of her benefits.  Her complaint alleged that these regulations violated § 402(a)(7) of the Social Security Act, 42 U. S. C. § 602(a)(7), 4 and the Equal Protection and Due Process Clauses of the Fourteenth Amendment to the United States Constitution. 5 The complaint further alleged that relief was authorized by 42 U. S. C. § 1983 6 and invoked federal jurisdiction under 28 U. S. C. § 1343. 7
A few months after the action was commenced, while discovery was underway, petitioner amended the AFDC regulations to authorize a deduction for all reasonable work-related expenses.  After an interval of almost a year and a half, respondent filed an amended complaint alleging that actual expenses in excess of certain standard allowances were still being routinely disallowed. Thereafter, a settlement was negotiated and the District Court entered a consent decree that, among other things, provided for a substantial increase in the standard allowances and gave AFDC recipients the right to prove that their actual work-related expenses were in excess of the standard. 8 The parties informally agreed that the question whether respondent was entitled to recover attorney's fees would be submitted to the District Court after the entry of the consent decree.
Following an adversary hearing, the District Court awarded respondent's counsel a fee of $ 3,012.19.  455 F.Supp. 1344 (1978). The court held that respondent was the "prevailing party" within the meaning of § 1988 because, while not prevailing "in every particular," she had won "substantially all of the relief originally sought in her complaint" in the consent decree. Id., at 1347. The court also rejected petitioner's argument that an award of fees against him was barred by the Eleventh Amendment in the absence of a judicial determination that respondent's constitutional rights had been violated. Relying on the basic policy against deciding constitutional claims unnecessarily, the court held that respondent was entitled to fees under the Act because, in addition to her statutory claim, she had alleged constitutional claims that were sufficiently substantial to support federal jurisdiction under the reasoning of Hagans v. Lavine, 415 U.S. 528.
The Court of Appeals affirmed, 594 F.2d 336 (CA2 1979), holding that Congress intended to authorize an award of fees in this kind of situation and that it had the constitutional power to do so. 9 We granted certiorari to consider both the statutory and constitutional questions.  444 U.S. 824.
I
Petitioner's first argument is that Congress did not intend to authorize the award of attorney's fees in every type of § 1983 action, but rather limited the courts' authority to award fees to cases in which § 1983 is invoked as a remedy for a constitutional violation or a violation of a federal statute providing for the protection of civil rights or equal rights.  In support of this contention, petitioner relies on our holding in Chapman v. Houston Welfare Rights Organization, 441 U.S. 600, that there is no federal jurisdiction under § 1343 over § 1983 claims outside these categories and that there is therefore no jurisdiction under § 1343 over a § 1983 claim based solely on a violation of the Social Security Act. Characterizing respondent's claim in this case as arising solely out of a Social Security Act violation, petitioner argues that the District Court had no authority under § 1988 to award her attorney's fees.
Even if petitioner's characterization of respondent's claim were correct, 10 his argument would have to be rejected.  In Maine v. Thiboutot, ante, p. 1, decided this day, we hold that   § 1988 applies to all types of § 1983 actions, including actions based solely on Social Security Act violations.  As MR. JUSTICE BRENNAN's opinion for the Court in Thiboutot   demonstrates, neither the language of § 1988 nor its legislative history provides any basis for importing the distinctions Chapman made among § 1983 actions for purposes of federal jurisdiction into the award of attorney's fees by a court that possesses jurisdiction over the claim. 11
We also find no merit in petitioner's suggestion that respondent was not the "prevailing party" within the meaning of § 1988.  The fact that respondent prevailed through a settlement rather than through litigation does not weaken her claim to fees.  Nothing in the language of § 1988 conditions the District Court's power to award fees on full litigation of the issues or on a judicial determination that the plaintiff's rights have been violated.  Moreover, the Senate Report expressly stated that "for purposes of the award of counsel fees, parties may be considered to have prevailed when they vindicate rights through a consent judgment or without formally obtaining relief." S. Rep. No. 94-1011, p. 5 (1976).
Nor can we accept petitioner's contention that respondent   did not gain sufficient relief through the consent decree to be considered the prevailing party. The District Court's contrary finding was based on its familiarity with the progress of the litigation through the pleading, discovery, and settlement negotiation stages.  That finding was upheld by the Court of Appeals, and we see no reason to question its validity.  See Graver Mfg. Co. v. Linde Co., 336 U.S. 271, 275.
II
Petitioner's second argument is that, regardless of Congress' intent, a federal court is barred by the Eleventh Amendment from awarding fees against a State in a case involving a purely statutory, non-civil-rights claim. 12 Petitioner argues that Congress may empower federal courts to award fees against the States only insofar as it is exercising its power under § 5 of the Fourteenth Amendment to enforce substantive rights conferred by that Amendment.  Thus, petitioner contends that fees can only be assessed in § 1983 actions brought to vindicate Fourteenth Amendment rights or to enforce civil rights statutes that were themselves enacted pursuant to § 5 of the Fourteenth Amendment. 13
In this case, there is no need to reach the question whether a federal court could award attorney's fees against a State based on a statutory, non-civil-rights claim.  For, contrary to petitioner's characterization, respondent did allege violations of her Fourteenth Amendment due process and equal protection rights, which the District Court and the Court of Appeals both held to be sufficiently substantial to support federal jurisdiction under Hagans v. Lavine, 415 U.S. 528. Although petitioner is correct that the trial judge did not find any constitutional violation, the constitutional issues remained in the case until the entire dispute was settled by the entry of a consent decree. Under these circumstances, petitioner's Eleventh Amendment claim is foreclosed by our decision in Hutto v. Finney, 437 U.S. 678.
In Hutto, we rejected the argument of the Attorney General of Arkansas that the general language of § 1988 was insufficient to overcome a State's claim of immunity under the Eleventh Amendment, noting that " Court has never viewed the Eleventh Amendment as barring such awards, even in suits between States and individual litigants." 14Id., at 695 .Moreover, even if the Eleventh Amendment would otherwise present a barrier to an award of fees against a State, Congress was clearly acting within its power under § 5 of the Fourteenth Amendment in removing that barrier. Under § 5 Congress may pass any legislation that is appropriate to enforce the guarantees of the Fourteenth Amendment.   A statute awarding attorney's fees to a person who prevails on a Fourteenth Amendment claim falls within the category of "appropriate" legislation.  And clearly Congress was not limited to awarding fees only when a constitutional or civil rights claim is actually decided.  We agree with the courts below that Congress was acting within its enforcement power in allowing the award of fees in a case in which the plaintiff prevails on a wholly statutory, non-civil-rights claim pendent to a substantial constitutional claim or in one in which both a statutory and a substantial constitutional claim are settled favorably to the plaintiff without adjudication. 15 As the Court of Appeals pointed out, such a fee award "furthers the Congressional goal of encouraging suits to vindicate constitutional rights without undermining the longstanding judicial policy of avoiding unnecessary decision of important constitutional issues." 594 F.2d, at 342. It is thus an appropriate means of enforcing substantive rights under the Fourteenth Amendment. 16
The judgment is affirmed.
So ordered.
<concur author="POWELL" text="TRUE">
CONCUR BY: POWELL
MR. JUSTICE POWELL, with whom THE CHIEF JUSTICE and MR. JUSTICE REHNQUIST join, concurring in the judgment, and in Part II of the Court's opinion.
Respondent's complaint presented claims under both the Social Security Act and the Fourteenth Amendment. Following a settlement between the parties, the District Court ruled that respondent is a "prevailing party" under 42 U. S. C. § 1988, and that she alleged "substantial" constitutional claims as defined in Hagans v. Lavine, 415 U.S. 528 (1974).
In this situation, the District Court and the Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit both found, the award of attorney's fees under § 1988 does not require an adjudication on the merits of the constitutional claims.  I agree with this conclusion.  Consequently, I see no reason to reach out, as the Court does in Part I of its opinion, to apply today's ruling in Maine v. Thiboutot, ante, p. 1.  See ante, at 128-129.  That decision holds that plaintiffs may win attorney's fees under § 1988 when they bring an action under 42 U. S. C. § 1983 without any constitutional claim whatever.  For the reasons given in my dissenting opinion in Thiboutot, I believe that decision seriously misconceives the congressional purpose behind § 1983. In this case, however, the complaint included a substantial constitutional claim which "remained in the case until the entire dispute was settled by the entry of a consent decree." Ante, at 131. Since Congress has made plain its intent that fees be awarded to "prevailing" parties in these circumstances, see ante, at 132-133, n. 15, we have no occasion to look behind the settlement agreement to evaluate further the constitutional cause of action.
In contrast, Part II of the Court's opinion resolves the Eleventh Amendment question on the narrow ground that respondent alleged "substantial" Fourteenth Amendment claims.  Ante, at 131.  Hutto v. Finney, 437 U.S. 678 (1978), held that since Congress may qualify the States' Eleventh Amendment immunity under the Enforcement Clause of the Fourteenth Amendment, § 1988 authorizes fee awards against States in these circumstances.  I believe that Congress should not be deemed to have qualified the Eleventh Amendment in the absence of explicit evidence of that intent.  See Hutto, supra, at 704 (POWELL, J., concurring in part and dissenting in part).  Nevertheless, I accept Hutto as binding precedent for this case and note only that the Court has reserved the question "whether a federal court could award attorney's fees against a State based on a statutory, non-civil-rights claim." Ante, at 130.
