OPINION
JUSTICE BRENNAN announced the judgment of the Court and delivered an opinion, in which JUSTICE WHITE, JUSTICE MARSHALL, and JUSTICE BLACKMUN joined.
This Court granted certiorari to determine whether the Due Process Clause of the   Fourteenth Amendment 1 or the Full Faith and Credit Clause of Art. IV, ยง 1, 2 of the United States Constitution bars the Minnesota Supreme Court's choice of substantive Minnesota law to govern the effect of a provision in an insurance policy issued to respondent's decedent. 444 U.S. 1070 (1980).
I
Respondent's late husband, Ralph Hague, died of injuries suffered when a motorcycle on which he was a passenger was struck from behind by an automobile. The accident occurred in Pierce County, Wis., which is immediately across the Minnesota border from Red Wing, Minn.  The operators of both vehicles were Wisconsin residents, as was the decedent, who, at the time of the accident, resided with respondent in Hager City, Wis., which is one and one-half miles from Red Wing.  Mr. Hague had been employed in Red Wing for the 15 years immediately preceding his death and had commuted daily from Wisconsin to his place of employment.
Neither the operator of the motorcycle nor the operator of the automobile carried valid insurance.  However, the decedent held a policy issued by petitioner Allstate Insurance Co. covering three automobiles owned by him and containing an uninsured motorist clause insuring him against loss incurred from accidents with uninsured motorists.  The uninsured motorist coverage was limited to $ 15,000 for each automobile. 3
After the accident, but prior to the initiation of this lawsuit, respondent moved to Red Wing.  Subsequently, she married a Minnesota resident and established residence with her new husband in Savage, Minn.  At approximately the same time, a Minnesota Registrar of Probate appointed respondent personal representative of her deceased husband's estate.  Following her appointment, she brought this action in Minnesota District Court seeking a declaration under Minnesota law that the $ 15,000 uninsured motorist coverage on each of her late husband's three automobiles could be "stacked" to provide total coverage of $ 45,000.  Petitioner defended on the ground that whether the three uninsured motorist coverages could be stacked should be determined by Wisconsin law, since the insurance policy was delivered in Wisconsin, the accident occurred in Wisconsin, and all persons involved were Wisconsin residents at the time of the accident.
The Minnesota District Court disagreed.  Interpreting Wisconsin law to disallow stacking, the court concluded that Minnesota's choice-of-law rules required the application of Minnesota law permitting stacking. The court refused to apply Wisconsin law as "inimical to the public policy of Minnesota" and granted summary judgment for respondent. 4
The Minnesota Supreme Court, sitting en banc, affirmed the District Court. 5 The court, also interpreting Wisconsin law to prohibit stacking, 6 applied Minnesota law after analyzing the relevant Minnesota contacts and interests within the analytical framework developed by Professor Leflar. 7 See Leflar, Choice-Influencing Considerations in Conflicts Law, 41 N. Y. U. L. Rev. 267 (1966). The state court, therefore, examined the conflict-of-laws issue in terms of (1) predictability of result, (2) maintenance of interstate order, (3) simplification of the judicial task, (4) advancement of the forum's governmental interests, and (5) application of the better rule of law. Although stating that the Minnesota contacts might not be, "in themselves, sufficient to mandate application of  law," 8 289 N. W. 2d 43, 49 (1978), under the first four factors, the court concluded that the fifth factor -- application of the better rule of law -- favored selection of Minnesota law. The court emphasized that a majority of States allow stacking and that legal decisions allowing stacking "are fairly recent and well considered in light of current uses of automobiles." Ibid.  In addition, the court found the Minnesota rule superior to Wisconsin's "because it requires the cost of accidents with uninsured motorists to be spread more broadly through insurance premiums than does the Wisconsin rule.  " Ibid.  Finally, after rehearing en banc, 9 the court buttressed its initial opinion by indicating "that contracts of insurance on motor vehicles are in a class by themselves" since an insurance company "knows the automobile is a movable item which will be driven from state to state." 289 N. W. 2d, at 50 (1979). From this premise the court concluded that application of Minnesota law was "not so arbitrary and unreasonable as to violate due process." Ibid.
II
It is not for this Court to say whether the choice-of-law analysis suggested by Professor Leflar is to be preferred or whether we would make the same choice-of-law decision if sitting as the Minnesota Supreme Court.  Our sole function is to determine whether the Minnesota Supreme Court's choice of its own substantive law in this case exceeded federal constitutional limitations. Implicit in this inquiry is the recognition, long accepted by this Court, that a set of facts giving rise to a lawsuit, or a particular issue within a lawsuit, may justify, in constitutional terms, application of the law of more than one jurisdiction.  See, e. g., Watson v. Employers Liability Assurance Corp., 348 U.S. 66, 72-73 (1954); n. 11, infra.  See generally Clay v. Sun Insurance Office, Ltd., 377 U.S. 179, 181-182 (1964) (hereinafter cited as Clay II).  As a result, the forum State may have to select one law from among the laws of several jurisdictions having some contact with the controversy.
In deciding constitutional choice-of-law questions, whether under the Due Process Clause or the Full Faith and Credit Clause, 10 this Court has   traditionally examined the contacts of the State, whose law was applied, with the parties and with the occurrence or transaction giving rise to the litigation.  See Clay II, supra, at 183. In order to ensure that the choice of law is neither arbitrary nor fundamentally unfair, see Alaska Packers Assn. v. Industrial Accident Comm'n, 294 U.S. 532, 542 (1935), the Court has invalidated the choice of law of a State which has had no significant contact or significant aggregation of contacts, creating state interests, with the parties and the occurrence or transaction. 11
Two instructive examples of such invalidation are Home Ins. Co. v. Dick, 281 U.S. 397 (1930), and John Hancock Mutual Life Ins. Co. v. Yates, 299 U.S. 178 (1936). In both cases, the selection of forum law rested exclusively on the presence of one nonsignificant forum contact.
Home Ins. Co. v. Dick involved interpretation of an insurance policy which had been issued in Mexico, by a Mexican insurer, to a Mexican citizen, covering a Mexican risk.  The policy was subsequently assigned to Mr. Dick, who was domiciled in Mexico and "physically present and acting in Mexico," 281 U.S., at 408, although he remained a nominal, permanent resident of Texas. The policy restricted coverage to losses occurring in certain Mexican waters and, indeed, the loss occurred in those waters.  Dick brought suit in Texas against a New York reinsurer.  Neither the Mexican insurer nor the New York reinsurer had any connection to Texas. 12 The Court held that application of Texas law to void the insurance contract's limitation-of-actions clause violated due process. 13
The relationship of the forum State to the parties and the transaction was similarly attenuated in John Hancock Mutual Life Ins. Co. v. Yates.  There, the insurer, a Massachusetts corporation, issued a contract of insurance on the life of a New York resident. The contract was applied for, issued, and delivered in New York where the insured and his spouse resided.  After the insured died in New York, his spouse moved to Georgia and brought suit on the policy in Georgia. Under Georgia law, the jury was permitted to take into account oral modifications when deciding whether an insurance policy application contained material misrepresentations.  Under New York law, however, such misrepresentations were to be evaluated solely on the basis of the written application.  The Georgia court applied Georgia law.  This Court reversed, finding application of Georgia law to be unconstitutional.
Dick and Yates stand for the proposition that   if a State has only an insignificant contact with the parties and the occurrence or transaction, application of its law is unconstitutional. 14 Dick concluded that nominal residence -- standing alone -- was inadequate; Yates held that a postoccurrence change of residence to the forum State -- standing alone -- was insufficient to justify application of forum law.  Although instructive as extreme examples of selection of forum law, neither Dick nor Yates governs this case.  For in contrast to those decisions, here the Minnesota contacts with the parties and the occurrence are obviously significant.  Thus, this case is like Alaska Packers, Cardillo v. Liberty Mutual Ins. Co., 330 U.S. 469 (1947), and Clay II -- cases where this Court sustained choice-of-law decisions based on the contacts of the State, whose law was applied, with the parties and occurrence.
In Alaska Packers, the Court upheld California's application of its Workmen's Compensation Act, where the most signficant contact of the worker with California was his execution of an employment contract in California.  The worker, a nonresident alien from Mexico, was hired in California for seasonal work in a salmon canning factory in Alaska.  As part of the employment contract, the employer, who was doing business in California, agreed to transport the worker to Alaska and to return him to California when the work was completed. Even though the employee contracted to be bound by the Alaska Workmen's Compensation Law and was injured in Alaska, he sought an award under the California Workmen's Compensation Act.  The Court held that the choice of California law was not "so arbitrary or unreasonable as to amount to a denial of due process," 294 U.S., at 542, because " a remedy in California,  would be remediless,  " ibid., and because of California's interest that the worker not become a public charge, ibid. 15
In Cardillo v. Liberty Mutual Ins. Co., supra, a District of Columbia resident, employed by a District of Columbia employer and assigned by the employer for the three years prior to his death to work in Virginia, was killed in an automobile crash in Virginia in the course of his daily commute home from work.  The Court found the District's contacts with the parties and the occurrence sufficient to satisfy constitutional requirements, based on the employee's residence in the District, his commute between home and the Virginia workplace, and his status as an employee of a company "engaged in   electrical construction work in the District of Columbia and surrounding areas." Id., at 471. 16
Similarly, Clay II upheld the constitutionality of the application of forum law. There, a policy of insurance had issued in Illinois to an Illinois resident. Subsequently the insured moved to Florida and suffered a property loss in Florida.  Relying explicitly on the nationwide coverage of the policy and the presence of the insurance company in Florida and implicitly on the plaintiff's Florida residence and the occurrence of the property loss in Florida, the Court sustained the Florida court's choice of Florida law.
The lesson from Dick and Yates, which found insufficient forum contacts to apply forum law, and from Alaska Packers, Cardillo, and Clay II, which found adequate contacts to sustain the choice of forum law, 17 is that   for a State's substantive law to be selected in a constitutionally permissible manner, that State must have a significant contact or significant aggregation of contacts, creating state interests, such that choice of its law is neither arbitrary nor fundamentally unfair. Application of this principle to the facts of this case persuades us that the Minnesota Supreme Court's choice of its own law did not offend the Federal Constitution.
III
Minnesota has three contacts with the parties and the occurrence giving rise to the litigation.  In the aggregate, these contacts permit selection by the Minnesota Supreme Court of Minnesota law allowing the stacking of Mr. Hague's uninsured motorist coverages.
First, and for our purposes a very important contact, Mr. Hague was a member of Minnesota's work force, having been employed by a Red Wing, Minn., enterprise for the 15 years preceding his death. While employment status may implicate a state interest less substantial than does resident status, that interest is nevertheless important.  The State of employment has police power responsibilities towards the nonresident employee that are analogous, if somewhat less profound, than towards residents. Thus, such employees use state services and amenities and may call upon state facilities in appropriate circumstances.
In addition, Mr. Hague commuted to work in Minnesota, a contact which was important in Cardillo v. Liberty Mutual Ins. Co., 330 U.S., at 475-476 (daily commute between residence in  District of Columbia and workplace in Virginia), and was presumably covered by his uninsured motorist coverage during the commute. 18 The State's interest in its commuting nonresident employees reflects a state concern for the safety and well-being of its work force and the concomitant effect on Minnesota employers.
That Mr. Hague was not killed while commuting to work or while in Minnesota does not dictate a different result.  To hold that the Minnesota Supreme Court's choice of Minnesota law violated the Constitution for that reason would require too narrow a view of Minnesota's relationship with the parties and the occurrence giving rise to the litigation.  An automobile accident need not occur within a particular jurisdiction for that jurisdiction to be connected to the occurrence. 19 Similarly, the occurrence of a crash fatal to a Minnesota employee in another State is a Minnesota contact. 20 If Mr. Hague had only been injured and missed work for a few weeks, the effect on the Minnesota employer would have been palpable and Minnesota's interest in having its employee made whole would be evident.  Mr. Hague's death affects Minnesota's interest still more acutely, even though Mr. Hague will not return to the Minnesota work force. Minnesota's work force is surely affected by the level of protection the State extends to it, either directly or indirectly. Vindication of the rights of the estate of a Minnesota employee, therefore, is an important state concern.
Mr. Hague's residence in Wisconsin does not -- as Allstate seems to argue -- constitutionally mandate application of Wisconsin law to the exclusion of forum law. 21 If, in the instant case, the accident had occurred in Minnesota between Mr. Hague and an uninsured Minnesota motorist, if the insurance contract had been executed in Minnesota covering a Minnesota registered company automobile which Mr. Hague was permitted to drive, and if a Wisconsin court sought to apply Wisconsin law, certainly Mr. Hague's residence in Wisconsin, his commute between Wisconsin and Minnesota, and the insurer's presence in Wisconsin should be adequate to apply Wisconsin's law. 22 See generally Cardillo v. Liberty Mutual Ins. Co., supra; Alaska Packers Assn. v. Industrial Accident Comm'n, 294 U.S. 532 (1935); Home Ins. Co. v. Dick, 281 U.S., at 408, n. 5.   Employment status is not a sufficiently less important status than residence, see generally Carroll v. Lanza, 349 U.S. 408 (1955); Alaska Packers Assn. v. Industrial Accident Comm'n, supra, when combined with Mr. Hague's daily commute across state lines and the other Minnesota contacts present, to prohibit the choice-of-law result in this case on constitutional grounds.
Second, Allstate was at all times present and doing business in Minnesota. 23 By virtue of its presence, Allstate can hardly claim unfamiliarity with the laws of the host jurisdiction and surprise that the state courts might apply forum law to litigation in which the company is involved. "Particularly since the company was licensed to do business in , it must have known it might be sued there, and that  courts would feel bound by  law." 24 Clay v. Sun Insurance Office Ltd., 363 U.S. 207, 221 (1960) (Black, J., dissenting). 25 Moreover, Allstate's presence in Minnesota gave Minnesota an interest in regulating the company's insurance obligations insofar as they affected both a Minnesota resident and court-appointed representative -- respondent -- and a longstanding member of Minnesota's work force -- Mr. Hague.  See Hoopeston Canning Co. v. Cullen, 318 U.S. 313, 316 (1943).
Third, respondent became a Minnesota resident prior to institution of this litigation.  The stipulated facts reveal that she first settled in Red Wing, Minn., the town in which her late husband had worked. 26 She subsequently moved to Savage, Minn., after marrying a Minnesota resident who opperated an automobile service station in Bloomington, Minn.  Her move to Savage occurred "almost concurrently," 289 N. W. 2d, at 45, with the initiation of the instant case. 27 There is no suggestion that Mrs. Hague moved to Minnesota in anticipation of this litigation or for the purpose of finding a legal climate especially hospitable to her claim. 28 The stipulated facts, sparse as they are, negate any such inference.
While John Hancock Mutual Life Ins. Co. v. Yates, 299 U.S. 178 (1936), held that a postoccurrence change of residence to the forum State was insufficient in and of itself to confer power on the forum State to choose its law, that case did not hold that such a change of residence was irrelevant. Here, of course, respondent's bona fide residence in Minnesota was not the sole contact Minnesota had with this litigation.  And in connection with her residence in Minnesota, respondent was appointed personal representative of Mr. Hague's estate by the Registrar of Probate for the County of Goodhue, Minn. Respondent's residence and subsequent appointment in Minnesota as personal representative of her late husband's estate constitute a Minnesota contact which gives Minnesota an interest in respondent's recovery, an interest which the court below identified as full compensation for "resident accident   victims" to keep them "off welfare rolls" and able "to meet financial obligations." 289 N. W. 2d, at 49.
In sum, Minnesota had a significant aggregation 29 of contacts with the parties and the occurrence, creating state interests, such that application of its law was neither arbitrary nor fundamentally unfair. Accordingly, the choice of Minnesota law by the Minnesota Supreme Court did not violate the Due Process Clause or the Full Faith and Credit Clause.
Affirmed.
JUSTICE STEWART took no part in the consideration or decision of this case.
<concur author="STEVENS" text="TRUE">
CONCUR BY: STEVENS
JUSTICE STEVENS, concurring in the judgment.
As I view this unusual case -- in which neither precedent nor constitutional language provides sure guidance -- two separate questions must be answered. First, does the Full Faith and Credit Clause 1 require Minnesota, the forum State, to apply Wisconsin law?  Second, does the Due Process Clause 2 of the Fourteenth Amendment prevent Minnesota from applying its own law? The first inquiry implicates the federal interest in ensuring that Minnesota respect the sovereignty of the State of Wisconsin; the second implicates the litigants' interest in a fair adjudication of their rights. 3
I realize that both this Court's analysis of choice-of-law questions 4 and scholarly criticism of those decisions 5 have treated these   two inquiries as though they were indistinguishable. 6   Nevertheless, I am persuaded that the two constitutional provisions protect different interests and that proper analysis requires separate consideration of each.
I
The Full Faith and Credit Clause is one of several provisions in the Federal Constitution designed to transform the several States from independent sovereignties into a single, unified Nation.  See Thomas v. Washington Gas Light Co., 448 U.S. 261, 271-272 (1980) (plurality opinion); Milwaukee County v. M. E. White Co., 296 U.S. 268, 276-277 (1935). 7 The Full Faith and Credit Clause implements this design by directing that a State, when acting as the forum for litigation having multistate aspects or implications, respect the legitimate interests of other States and avoid infringement upon their sovereignty. The Clause does not, however, rigidly require the forum State to apply foreign law whenever another State has a valid interest in the litigation.  See Nevada v. Hall, 440 U.S. 410, 424 (1979); Alaska Packers Assn. v. Industrial Accident Comm'n, 294 U.S. 532, 546-548 (1935); Pacific Employers Ins. Co. v. Industrial Accident Comm'n, 306 U.S. 493, 501-502 (1939). 8 On the contrary, in view of the fact that the forum State is also a sovereign in its own right, in appropriate cases it may attach paramount importance to its own legitimate interests. 9 Accordingly, the fact that a choice-of-law decision may be unsound as a matter of conflicts law does not necessarily implicate the federal concerns embodied in the Full Faith and Credit Clause. Rather, in my opinion, the Clause should not invalidate a state court's choice of forum law unless that choice threatens the federal interest in national unity by unjustifiably infringing upon the legitimate interests of another State. 10
In this case, I think the Minnesota courts' decision to apply Minnesota law was plainly unsound as a matter of normal conflicts law.  Both the execution of the insurance contract and the accident giving rise to the litigation took place in Wisconsin.  Moreover, when both of those events occurred, the plaintiff, the decedent, and the operators of both vehicles were all residents of Wisconsin.  Nevertheless, I do not believe that any threat to national unity or Wisconsin's sovereignty ensues from allowing the substantive question presented by this case to be determined by the law of another State.
The question on the merits is one of interpreting the meaning of the insurance contract. Neither the contract itself, nor anything else in the record, reflects any express understanding of the parties with respect to what law would be applied or with respect to whether the separate uninsured motorist coverage for each of the decedent's three cars could be "stacked." Since the policy provided coverage for accidents that might occur in other States, it was obvious to the parties at the time of contracting that it might give rise to the application of the law of States other than Wisconsin.  Therefore, while Wisconsin may have an interest in ensuring that contracts formed in Wisconsin in reliance upon Wisconsin law are interpreted in accordance with that law, that interest is not implicated in this case. 11
Petitioner has failed to establish that Minnesota's refusal to apply Wisconsin law poses any direct 12 or indirect threat to Wisconsin's sovereignty. 13 In the absence of any such    threat, I find it unnecessary to evaluate the forum State's interest in the litigation in order to reach the conclusion that the Full Faith and Credit Clause does not require the Minnesota courts to apply Wisconsin law to the question of contract interpretation presented in this case.
II
It may be assumed that a choice-of-law decision would violate the Due Process Clause if it were totally arbitrary or if it were fundamentally unfair to either litigant.  I question whether a judge's decision to apply the law of his own State could ever be described as wholly irrational.  For judges are presumably familiar with their own state law and may find it difficult and time consuming to discover and apply correctly the law of another State. 14 The forum State's interest in the fair and efficient administration of justice is therefore sufficient, in my judgment, to attach a presumption of validity to a forum State's decision to apply its own law to a dispute over which it has jurisdiction.
The forum State's interest in the efficient operation of its judicial system is clearly not sufficient, however, to justify the application of a rule of law that is fundamentally unfair to one of the litigants.  Arguably, a litigant could demonstrate such unfairness in a variety of ways.  Concern about the fairness of the forum's choice of its own rule might arise if that rule favored residents over nonresidents, if it represented a dramatic departure from the rule that obtains in most American jurisdictions, or if the rule itself was unfair on its face or as applied. 15
The application of an otherwise acceptable rule of law may result in unfairness to the litigants if, in engaging in the activity which is the subject of the litigation, they could not reasonably have anticipated that their actions would later be judged by this rule of law. A choice-of-law decision that frustrates the justifiable expectations of the parties can be fundamentally unfair. This desire to prevent unfair surprise to a litigant has been the central concern in this Court's review of choice-of-law decisions under the Due Process Clause. 16
Neither the "stacking" rule itself, nor Minnesota's application of that rule to these litigants, raises any serious question of fairness.  As the plurality observes, " was the rule in most States at the time the policy was issued." Ante, at 316, n. 22. 17 Moreover, the rule is consistent with the economics of a contractual relationship in which the policyholder paid three separate premiums for insurance coverage for three automobiles, including a separate premium for each uninsured motorist coverage. 18 Nor am I persuaded that the decision of the Minnesota courts to apply the "stacking" rule in this case can be said to violate due process because that decision frustrates the reasonable expectations of the contracting parties.
Contracting parties can, of course, make their expectations explicit by providing in their contract either that the law of a particular jurisdiction shall govern questions of contract interpretation, 19 or that a particular substantive rule, for instance "stacking," shall or shall not apply. 20   In the absence of such express provisions, the contract nonetheless may implicitly reveal the expectations of the parties.  For example, if a liability insurance policy issued by a resident of a particular State provides coverage only with respect to accidents within that State, it is reasonable to infer that the contracting parties expected that their obligations under the policy would be governed by that State's law. 21
In this case, no express indication of the parties' expectations is available. The insurance policy provided coverage for accidents throughout the United States; thus, at the time of contracting, the parties certainly could have anticipated that the law of States other than Wisconsin would govern particular claims arising under the policy. 22 By virtue of doing business in Minnesota, Allstate was aware that it could be sued in the Minnesota courts; Allstate also presumably was aware that Minnesota law, as well as the law of most States, permitted "stacking." Nothing in the record requires   that a different inference be drawn.  Therefore, the decision of the Minnesota courts to apply the law of the forum in this case does not frustrate the reasonable expectations of the contracting parties, and I can find no fundamental unfairness in that decision requiring the attention of this Court. 23
In terms of fundamental fairness, it seems to me that two factors relied upon by the plurality -- the plaintiff's post-accident move to Minnesota and the decedent's Minnesota employment -- are either irrelevant to or possibly even tend to undermine the plurality's conclusion.  When the expectations of the parties at the time of contracting are the central due process concern, as they are in this case, an unanticipated postaccident occurrence is clearly irrelevant for due process purposes.  The fact that the plaintiff became a resident of the forum State after the accident surely cannot justify a ruling in her favor that would not be made if the plaintiff were a nonresident. Similarly,   while the fact that the decedent regularly drove into Minnesota might be relevant to the expectations of the contracting parties, 24 the fact that he did so because he was employed in Minnesota adds nothing to the due process analysis.  The choice-of-law decision of the Minnesota courts is consistent with due process because it does not result in unfairness to either litigant, not because Minnesota now has an interest in the plaintiff as resident or formerly had an interest in the decedent as employee.
III
Although I regard the Minnesota courts' decision to apply forum law as unsound as a matter of conflicts law, and there is little in this record other than the presumption in favor of the forum's own law to support that decision, I concur in the plurality's judgment.  It is not this Court's function to establish and impose upon state courts a federal choice-of-law rule, nor is it our function to ensure that state courts correctly apply whatever choice-of-law rules they have themselves adopted. 25 Our authority may be exercised in the choice-of-law area only to prevent a violation of the Full Faith and Credit or the Due Process Clause.  For the reasons stated above, I find no such violation in this case.
<dissent author="POWELL" text="TRUE">
DISSENT BY: POWELL
JUSTICE POWELL, with whom THE CHIEF JUSTICE and JUSTICE REHNQUIST join, dissenting.
My disagreement with the plurality is narrow.  I accept with few reservations Part II of the plurality opinion, which sets forth the basic principles that guide us in reviewing state choice-of-law decisions under the Constitution.  The Court should invalidate a forum State's decision to apply its own law only when there are no significant contacts between the State and the litigation.  This modest check on state power is mandated by the Due Process Clause of the Fourteenth Amendment and the Full Faith and Credit Clause of Art. IV, ยง 1.  I do not believe, however, that the plurality adequately analyzes the policies such review must serve.  In consequence, it has found significant what appear to me to be trivial contacts between the forum State and the litigation.
I
At least since Carroll v. Lanza, 349 U.S. 408 (1955), the Court has recognized that both the Due Process and the Full Faith and Credit Clauses are satisfied if the forum has such significant contacts with the litigation that it has a legitimate state interest in applying its own law. The significance of asserted contacts must be evaluated in light of the constitutional policies that oversight by this Court should serve.  Two enduring policies emerge from our cases.
First, the contacts between the forum State and the litigation should not be so "slight and casual" that it would be fundamentally unfair to a litigant for the forum to apply its own State's law.  Clay v. Sun Ins. Office, Ltd., 377 U.S. 179, 182 (1964). The touchstone here is the reasonable expectation of the parties.  See Weintraub, Due Process and Full Faith and Credit Limitations on a State's Choice of Law, 44 Iowa L. Rev. 449, 445-457 (1959) (Weintraub).  Thus, in Clay, the insurer sold a policy to Clay "'with knowledge that he could take his property anywhere in the world he saw fit without losing the protection of his insurance.'" 377 U.S., at 182, quoting Clay v. Sun Ins. Office Ltd., 363 U.S. 207, 221 (1960) (Black, J., dissenting).  When the insured moved to Florida with the knowledge of the insurer, and a loss occurred in that State, this Court found no unfairness in Florida's applying its own rule of decision to permit recovery on the policy.  The insurer "must have known it might be sued there." Ibid.  See also Watson v. Employers Liability Assurance Corp., 348 U.S. 66 (1954). 1
Second, the forum State must have a legitimate interest in the outcome of the litigation before it.  Pacific Ins. Co. v. Industrial Accident Comm'n, 306 U.S. 493 (1939). The Full Faith and Credit Clause addresses the accommodation of sovereign power among the various States.  Under limited circumstances, it requires one State to give effect to the statutory law of another State.  Nevada v. Hall, 440 U.S. 410, 423 (1979). To be sure, a forum State need not give effect to another State's law if that law is in "violation of its own legitimate public policy." Id., at 422. Nonetheless, for a forum State to further its legitimate public policy by applying its own law to a controversy, there must be some connection between the facts giving rise to the litigation and the scope of the State's lawmaking jurisdiction.
Both the Due Process and Full Faith and Credit Clauses ensure that the States do not "reach out beyond the limits imposed on them by their status as coequal sovereigns in a federal system." World-Wide Volkswagen Corp. v. Woodson, 444 U.S. 286, 292 (1980) (addressing Fourteenth Amendment limitation on state-court jurisdiction).  As the Court stated in Pacific Ins. Co., supra: " full faith and credit clause does not require one state to substitute for its own statute, applicable to persons and events within it, the conflicting statute of another state." Id., at 502 (emphasis added).  The State has a legitimate interest in applying a rule of decision to the litigation only if the facts to which the rule will be applied have created effects within the State, toward which the State's public policy is directed.  To assess the sufficiency of asserted contacts between the forum and the litigation, the court must determine if the contacts form a reasonable link between the litigation and a state policy.  In short, examination of contacts addresses whether "the state   has an interest in the application of its policy in this instance." Currie, The Constitution and the Choice of Law: Governmental Interests and the Judicial Function, in B. Currie, Selected Essays on the Conflict of Laws 188, 189 (1963) (Currie).  If it does, the Constitution is satisfied.
John Hancock Mut. Life Ins. Co. v. Yates, 299 U.S. 178 (1936), illustrates this principle.  A life insurance policy was executed in New York, on a New York insured with a New York beneficiary.  The insured died in New York; his beneficiary moved to Georgia and sued to recover on the policy.  The insurance company defended on the ground that the insured, in the application for the policy, had made materially false statements that rendered it void under New York law.  This Court reversed the Georgia court's application of its contrary rule that all questions of the policy's validity must be determined by the jury.  The Court found a violation of the Full Faith and Credit Clause, because " respect to the accrual of the right asserted under the contract . . . there was no occurrence, nothing done, to which the law of Georgia could apply." Id., at 182. In other words, the Court determined that Georgia had no legitimate interest in applying its own law to the legal issue of liability. Georgia's contacts with the contract of insurance were nonexistent. 2 See Home Ins. Co. v. Dick, 281 U.S. 397, 408 (1930).
In summary, the significance of the contacts between a forum State and the litigation must be assessed in light of these two important constitutional policies. 3 A contact, or a pattern of contacts, satisfies the Constitution when it protects the litigants from being unfairly surprised if the forum State applies its own law, and when the application of the forum's law reasonably can be understood to further a legitimate public policy of the forum State.
II
Recognition of the complexity of the constitutional inquiry requires that this Court apply these principles with restraint.  Applying these principles to the facts of this case, I do not believe, however, that Minnesota had sufficient contacts with the "persons and events" in this litigation to apply its rule permitting stacking. I would agree that no reasonable expectations of the parties were frustrated.  The risk insured by petitioner was not geographically limited.  See Clay v. Sun Ins. Office, Ltd., 377 U.S., at 182. The close proximity of Hager City, Wis., to Minnesota, and the fact that Hague commuted daily to Red Wing, Minn., for many years should have led the insurer to realize that there was a reasonable probability that the risk would materialize in Minnesota.  Under our precedents, it is plain that Minnesota could have applied its own law to an accident occurring within its borders.  See ante, at 318, n. 24.  The fact that the accident did not, in fact, occur in Minnesota is not controlling because the expectations of the litigants before the cause of   action accrues provide the pertinent perspective.  See Weintraub 455; n. 1, supra.
The more doubtful question in this case is whether application of Minnesota's substantive law reasonably furthers a legitimate state interest.  The plurality attempts to give substance to the tenuous contacts between Minnesota and this litigation.  Upon examination, however, these contacts are either trivial or irrelevant to the furthering of any public policy of Minnesota.
First, the postaccident residence of the plaintiff-beneficiary is constitutionally irrelevant to the choice-of-law question.  John Hancock Mut. Life Ins. Co. v. Yates, supra. The plurality today insists that Yates only held that a postoccurrence move to the forum State could not "in and of itself" confer power on the forum to apply its own law, but did not establish that such a change of residence was irrelevant.  Ante, at 319.  What the Yates Court held, however, was that "there was no occurrence, nothing done, to which the law of Georgia could apply." 299 U.S., at 182 (emphasis added).  Any possible ambiguity in the Court's view of the significance of a postoccurrence change of residence is dispelled by Home Ins. Co . v. Dick, supra, cited by the Yates Court, where it was held squarely that Dick's postaccident move to the forum State was "without significance." 281 U.S., at 408.
This rule is sound.  If a plaintiff could choose the substantive rules to be applied to an action by moving to a hospitable forum, the invitation to forum shopping would be irresistible.  Moreover, it would permit the defendant's reasonable expectations at the time the cause of action accrues to be frustrated, because it would permit the choice-of-law question to turn on a postaccrual circumstance.  Finally, postaccrual residence has nothing to do with facts to which the forum State proposes to apply its rule; it is unrelated to the substantive legal issues presented by the litigation.
Second, the plurality finds it significant that the insurer does business in the forum State.  Ante, at 317-318.  The State does have a legitimate interest in regulating the practices of such an insurer. But this argument proves too much.  The insurer here does business in all 50 States.  The forum State has no interest in regulating that conduct of the insurer unrelated to property, persons,  or contracts executed within the forum State. 4 See Hoopeston Canning Co. v. Cullen, 318 U.S. 313, 319 (1943). The plurality recognizes this flaw and attempts to bolster the significance of the local presence of the insurer by combining it with the other factors deemed significant: the presence of the plaintiff and the fact that the deceased worked in the forum State.  This merely restates the basic question in the case.
Third, the plurality emphasizes particularly that the insured worked in the forum State. 5 Ante, at 313-317.  The fact that the insured was a nonresident employee in the forum State provides a significant contact for the furtherance of some local policies.  See, e. g., Pacific Ins. Co. v. Industrial Accident Comm'n, 306 U.S. 493 (1939) (forum State's interest in compensating workers for employment-related injuries occurring within the State); Alaska Packers Assn. v. Industrial Accident Comm'n, 294 U.S. 532, 549 (1935) (forum State's interest in compensating the employment-related injuries of a worker hired in the State).  The insured's place of employment is not, however, significant in this case.  Neither the nature of the insurance policy, the events related to the accident, nor the immediate question of stacking coverage is in any way affected or implicated by the insured's employment status.  The plurality's opinion is understandably vague in explaining how trebling the benefits to be paid to the estate of a nonresident employee furthers any substantial state interest relating to employment.  Minnesota does not wish its workers to die in automobile accidents, but permitting stacking will not further this interest.  The substantive issue here is solely one of compensation, and whether the compensation provided by this policy is increased or not will have no relation to the State's employment policies or police power.  See n. 5, supra .
Neither taken separately nor in the aggregate do the contacts asserted by the plurality today indicate that Minnesota's application of its substantive rule in this case will further any legitimate state interest. 6 The plurality focuses   only on physical contacts vel non, and in doing so pays scant attention to the more fundamental reasons why our precedents require reasonable policy-related contacts in choice-of-law cases.  Therefore, I dissent.
