OPINION
JUSTICE STEVENS delivered the opinion of the Court.
Under the Longshoremen's and Harbor Workers' Compensation Act (LHWCA), 44 Stat. (part 2) 1424, as amended, 33 U. S. C. §§ 901-950 (1976 ed. and Supp. III), compensation for a permanent partial disability must be determined in one of two ways.  First, if the injury is of a kind specifically identified in the schedule set forth in §§ 8 (c)(1)-(20) of the Act, 33 U. S. C. §§ 908 (c)(1)-(20), the injured employee is entitled to receive two-thirds of his average weekly wages for a specific number of weeks, regardless of whether his earning capacity has actually been impaired.  Second, in all other cases, § 8 (c)(21), 33 U. S. C. § 908 (c)(21), authorizes compensation equal to two-thirds of the difference between the employee's preinjury average weekly wages and his postinjury wage-earning capacity, during the period of his disability. 1 The question in this case is whether a permanently partially disabled employee, entitled to compensation under the statutory schedule, may elect to receive a larger recovery under § 8 (c)(21) measured by the actual impairment of wage-earning capacity caused by his injury. Although Congress could surely authorize such an election, it has not yet done so. We therefore hold that respondent Cross' recovery must be limited by the statutory schedule.
Cross is employed by Potomac Electric Power Co. (Pepco) as a cable splicer -- a job that requires strength and agility.  In 1974, he earned a total of $ 21,959.38, including overtime pay of $ 8,543.30.  In December of that year, he injured his left knee in the course of his employment, thereby suffering a permanent partial loss of the use of his leg. The physical impairment is described as a 5 to 20% loss of the use of one leg, but the resulting impairment of his earning capacity is apparently in excess of 40%. 2 Although Cross has retained his job, he has not been able to perform all of the strenuous duties required of a cable splicer and therefore he has received no overtime and has not qualified for certain pay increases.
Because he worked in the District of Columbia, respondent Cross is entitled to compensation under the LHWCA. 3 It is undisputed that the injury to his leg is a "permanent partial disability" within the meaning of § 8 (c) of the Act; he therefore has an unquestioned right to a compensation award measured by a fraction of his earnings for 288 weeks. 4 His claim, however, is for the larger amount measured by two-thirds of the difference between his average weekly earnings before the injury and his present wage-earning capacity, multiplied by the number of weeks that his disability continues. 5
The Administrative Law Judge allowed the larger recovery.  He held that an injured employee is not required to accept the specific amount authorized by §§ 8 (c)(2) and (19) for the partial loss of the use of a leg, but instead may recover an amount based on the formula set forth in § 8 (c)(21) for "all other cases." Using that formula, the Administrative Law Judge found that respondent Cross' permanent loss of earning capacity amounted to approximately $ 130 per week, and ordered Pepco to pay him two-thirds of that amount each week for the remainder of his working life.  The Benefits Review Board affirmed. Cross v. Potomac Electric Power Co., 7 BRBS 10 (1977).
The United States Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit also affirmed.  196 U. S. App. D. C. 417, 606 F.2d 1324 (1979). Recognizing that   the Act "must be construed in light of its humanitarian objectives," and noting a "recent trend in workmen's compensation law away from the idea of exclusivity of scheduled benefits," the court concluded that the "all other cases" language in § 8 (c)(21) provided a "remedial alternative" measure of compensation for cases in which "the scheduled benefits fail adequately to compensate for a diminution in  capabilities." 6 While expressing sympathy for the result reached by the majority, one judge dissented. 7
I
The language of the Act plainly supports the view that the character of the disability determines the method of compensation.  Section 8 identifies four different categories of disability and separately prescribes the method of compensation for each. 8 In the permanent partial disability category, § 8 (c) provides a compensation schedule which covers 20 different specific injuries.  It then adds an additional subparagraph, § 8 (c)(21), that applies to any injury not included within the list of specific injuries.  There is no language in that additional subparagraph indicating that it was intended to provide an alternative method of compensation for the cases described in the preceding subparagraphs; quite the contrary, by its terms, subparagraph (21) is applicable "In all other cases." 9
It is also noteworthy that the statutory direction that precedes the schedule of specifically described partial disabilities mandates that the compensation prescribed by the schedule "shall be paid to the employee, as follows." 10 We are not free to read this language as though it granted the employee an election.  Nor are we free to read the subsequent words "all other cases" as though they described "all of the foregoing" as well; the use of the word "other" forecloses that reading.
In sum, we find nothing in the statute itself to support the view that the reference to "all other cases" in § 8 (c)(21) was intended to authorize an alternative method for computation of disability benefits in certain cases of permanent partial disability already provided for in the schedule.
II
The legislative history of the Act is entirely consistent with the conclusion that it was intended to mean what it says.  Although that history contains no specific consideration of the precise question before us, 11 one aspect of the Act's history is somewhat enlightening.  The relevant language was enacted in 1927. 12 It was patterned after a similar "scheduled benefits" provision in the New York Workmen's Compensation Law enacted in 1922. 13 A few years after enactment of the LHWCA, the New York Court of Appeals was confronted with the same question of construction under the New York statute that is now presented to us under the federal statute.  The New York Court of Appeals apparently considered the statutory language so clear on its face that little discussion of this issue was necessary:
"Obviously, the phrase 'in all other cases' signifies that the provisions of the paragraph shall apply only in cases where the injuries received are not confined to a specific member or specific members." Sokolowski v. Bank of America, 261 N. Y. 57, 62, 184 N. E. 492, 494 (1933).
Nothing in the original legislative history of the Federal Act or in the legislative history of subsequent amendments 14 indicates that Congress did not intend the plain language of the federal statute to receive the same construction as the substantially identical language of its New York ancestor.
III
The weight of judicial authority also supports a literal reading of the Act.
During the first half century of administration of the LHWCA, federal tribunals consistently construed the schedule benefits provision as exclusive.  Although the exclusivity question did not explicitly arise until 1964, prior to that time   evidence of loss of wages or wage-earning capacity was considered irrelevant in cases of permanent partial disability falling within the schedule provisions. 15 In 1964, in Williams v. Donovan, 234 F.Supp. 135 (ED La.), aff'd, 367 F.2d 825 (CA5 1966), cert. denied, 386 U.S. 977 (1967), the first federal court to address the exclusivity issue found that "the form and language of the Act" indicated that compensation under § 8 (c)(21) for loss of wage-earning capacity was not available in cases covered by the schedule.  234 F.Supp., at 139. This construction of the Act went unchallenged for the next decade. 16
It was not until 1975 that the Benefits Review Board announced its dissatisfaction with the Williams construction of the statute and concluded that claimants suffering from a permanent partial disability may elect to proceed under either the schedule or § 8 (c) (21). 17 The Board has since applied its construction of the Act in a series of decisions of which the instant case is a member. 18 The divided opinion of the   Court of Appeals is apparently the first and only federal court decision   accepting that construction.  The notion that the plain language of the LHWCA might not mean what it says is thus a relatively recent development surfacing for the first time almost 50 years after its enactment.  The relevant judicial authority prior to 1975, although not abundant, indicates that the schedule benefits were considered exclusive.
While the federal decisional authority on this question is scarce, state-law authority apparently is not.  The lower court cited, and the respondents rely upon, the "recent trend in workmen's compensation law away from the idea of exclusivity of scheduled benefits." 196 U. S. App. D. C., at 421, 606 F.2d, at 1328.19 Although this "trend" unquestionably exists, it is neither uniform nor based entirely on cases presenting issues comparable to the precise issue before us. 20   More importantly, a proper understanding of the judicial role in this case reveals that the recent trend actually supports a literal reading of the federal statute.  Our task is to ascertain the congressional intent underlying the schedule benefit provisions enacted in 1927; we are not free to incorporate into those provisions subsequent state-law developments that we may consider sound as a matter of policy.  In attempting to ascertain the legislative intent underlying a statute enacted over 50 years ago, the view that once " the field" is more enlightening than a recent state-law trend that has not motivated subsequent Congresses to amend the federal statute. 21 The once dominant view is entirely consistent with a literal reading of the Act.
IV
Respondents suggest two reasons why this settled construction is erroneous. They submit that it does not fulfill the fundamental remedial purpose of the Act and that it may produce anomalous results that Congress probably did not intend. The first submission is not entirely accurate; the second, though theoretically correct, has insufficient force to overcome the plain language of the statute itself.
Respondents correctly observe that prior decisions of this Court require that   the LHWCA be liberally construed in order to effectuate its remedial purposes. 22 Respondents accordingly argue that the Act should be interpreted in a manner which provides a complete and adequate remedy to an injured employee. Implicit in this argument, however, is the assumption that the sole purpose of  the Act was to provide disabled workers with a complete remedy for their industrial injuries.  The inaccuracy of this implicit assumption undercuts the validity of respondents' argument.
The LHWCA, like other workmen's compensation legislation, is indeed remedial in that it was intended to provide a certain recovery for employees who are injured on the job.  It imposes liability without fault and precludes the assertion of various common-law defenses that had frequently resulted in the denial of any recovery for disabled laborers.  While providing employees with the benefit of a more certain recovery for work-related harms, statutes of this kind do not purport to provide complete compensation for the wage earner's economic loss. 23 On the contrary, they provide employers with definite and lower limits on potential liability than would have been applicable in common-law tort actions for damages.  None of the categories of disability covered by the LHWCA authorizes recovery measured by the full loss of an injured employee's earnings; even those in the most favored categories may recover only two-thirds of the actual loss of earnings. It therefore is not correct to interpret the Act as guaranteeing a completely adequate remedy for all covered disabilities. Rather, like most workmen's compensation legislation, the LHWCA   represents a compromise between the competing interests of disabled laborers and their employers. 24 The use of a schedule of fixed benefits as an exclusive remedy in certain cases is consistent with the employees' interest in receiving a prompt and certain recovery for their industrial injuries as well as with the employers' interest in having their contingent liabilities identified as precisely and as early as possible.
It is true, however, that requiring resort to the schedule may produce certain incongruous results.  Unless an injury results in a scheduled disability, the employee's compensation is dependent upon proving a loss of wage-earning capacity; in contrast, even though a scheduled injury may have no actual effect on an employee's capacity to perform a particular job or to maintain a prior level of income, compensation in the schedule amount must be paid.  Conversely, the schedule may seriously undercompensate some employees like respondent Cross. 25 The result seems particularly unfair when his case is compared with an employee who suffers an unscheduled disability resulting in an equivalent impairment of earning capacity. Indeed, it is possible that the award for a serious temporary partial disability could exceed the amount scheduled for a permanent disability of like character. 26
As this Court has observed in the past,   it is not to be lightly assumed that Congress intended that the LHWCA produce incongruous results.  Baltimore & Phila. Steamboat Co. v. Norton, 284 U.S. 408, 412-413 (1932). But if "compelling language" produces incongruities, the federal courts may not avoid them by rewriting or ignoring that language.  Id., at 413. Such compelling statutory language is present in this case.  See Part I, supra.  The fact that it leads to seemingly unjust results in particular cases does not give judges a license to disregard it. 27
If anomalies actually do occur with any frequency in the day-to-day administration of the Act, they provide a persuasive justification for a legislative review of the statutory compensation schedule.  It would obviously be sound policy for Congress to re-examine the schedule of permanent partial disability benefits more frequently than every half century. 28 In such a re-examination the extent and importance of hypothetical cases such as those described by respondents could be fairly evaluated.  In this judicial proceeding, however, concern with such hypothetical cases is less compelling than sympathy for the actual plight of the individual litigant in the case before us.  Nonetheless, that sympathy is an insufficient basis for approving a recovery that Congress has not authorized.
The judgment is
Reversed.
<dissent author="BLACKMUN" text="TRUE">
DISSENT BY: BLACKMUN
JUSTICE BLACKMUN, dissenting.
The Court in this case and the dissent in the Court of Appeals argue rather persuasively (but, for me, not convincingly) that, although they reach an incongruous result, see ante, at 282-284, the statute is to be construed in favor of that incongruity and of the anomalies that concededly exist.  It is said that this is so because Congress just wrote the statute that way.  Now that the Court has so ruled, the Congress fortunately can remedy the anomalous situation if only it will go about doing it.
That, of course, is of no help or comfort to respondent Cross, the particular litigant here, who suffered the injury and who, as the Court concedes, ante, at 283, might have had a greater award had his injury been less enduring.   That does not make much sense to me and, while I realize that statutory inequities occasionally exist in the area of workmen's compensation where seemingly arbitrary lines must be drawn somewhere, I cannot believe that by the language of this statute Congress intended such a result.
Soon after the Longshoremen's and Harbor Workers' Compensation Act (LHWCA), 44 Stat.  (part 2) 1424, 33 U. S. C. §§ 901-950, became law in 1927, this Court unanimously announced the principles to be applied in resolving questions of statutory construction that arise under it:
"The measure before us, like recent similar legislation in many States, requires employers to make payments for the relief of employees and their dependents who sustain loss as a result of personal injuries and deaths occurring in the course of their work, whether with or without fault attributable to employers.  Such laws operate to relieve persons suffering such misfortunes of a part of the burden and to distribute it to the industries and mediately to those served by them.  They are deemed to be in the public interest and should be construed liberally in furtherance of the purpose for which they were enacted and, if possible, so as to avoid incongruous or harsh results." Baltimore & Phila. Steamboat Co. v. Norton, 284 U.S. 408, 414 (1932).
See also Voris v. Eikel, 346 U.S. 328, 333 (1953).
Today's decision departs from these principles by reaching, rather than avoiding, a harsh and incongruous result. 1 It is undisputed that respondent Cross has suffered an injury that will reduce his weekly earnings by $ 130.13 for the rest of his working life.  To compensate him for this injury, the Benefits Review Board awarded him two-thirds of his lost earnings -- $ 86.76 per week or approximately $ 4,500 per year -- for as long as he continues to work.  Under the Court's decision, however, the most that Cross will receive is a total of about $ 12,800, 2 less than three years' compensation as   awarded by the Board.  If the Board now accepts petitioner's argument that Cross has lost only 5% of the use of his leg, he will receive about $ 3,200, less than one year's compensation. 3 Of course, if Congress really intended such a result, the Court would be powerless to change it.  I believe, however, that neither the language of the statute nor its legislative history warrants the interpretation that the Court adopts.
The starting point, of course, is the statute's definition of "disability." Section 2 (10) of the Act, 33 U. S. C. § 902 (10), defines "disability" as "incapacity because of injury to earn the wages which the employee was receiving at the time of injury in the same or any other employment." As used in the Act, therefore, "disability" is an economic concept, rather than a medical one.  An injury is not compensable under the Act unless it results in some diminution in the employee's earning power.
Not surprisingly, then, the amount of compensation that the Act provides depends upon the amount of wages lost by the injured employee due to his injury.  A worker who suffers permanent total disability, and therefore is unable to earn any wages, receives two-thirds of his average weekly wages. § 908 (a).  One who suffers temporary total disability receives two-thirds of his average weekly wages as long as he remains disabled. § 908 (b).  One who suffers temporary partial disability receives two-thirds of the difference between his average weekly wages before the injury and his wage-earning capacity after the injury, payable as long as the disability continues, but not longer than five years.  § 908 (e).
The Act's treatment of permanent partial disability should be read against this background.  As the Court notes, § 908 (c) contains 20 subsections establishing compensation for permanent partial disability caused by particular injuries. That compensation is two-thirds of the worker's weekly wages for a specified number of weeks for the injury listed.  Subsection (21) then provides that " all other cases in this class of disability" an employee shall receive two-thirds of the difference between his average weekly wages before the injury and his wage-earning capacity thereafter.  The Court prefers to construe "other cases" to mean that the compensation specified for the injuries listed in subsections (1) to (20) is the exclusive method of compensating workers who are permanently, but partially, disabled by these injuries.  I believe that "other cases" includes any case in which the worker does not wish to accept the compensation offered in subsections (1) to (20), but elects to bear the burden of proving the difference between his wages before the injury and his wage-earning capacity afterwards.
This interpretation is far more in harmony with the overall purpose of the Act than is the Court's construction.  The House Committee that considered   the legislation explained that workers' compensation "has come to be universally recognized as a necessity in the interest of social justice between employer and employee," and that this Act would provide an injured worker with "compensation during the period of his illness or inability to pursue his usual employment . . . ." (Emphasis added.) H. R. Rep. No. 1767, 69th Cong., 2d Sess.,  19-20   (1927). 4 The compensation that the Court's decision provides to respondent Cross falls far short of this goal.
An additional purpose of the statute was to afford prompt relief to covered workers "without the delay and expense which an action at law entails." Id., at 20.  The inclusion of a schedule of benefits in § 908 (c) serves this goal by providing an easily ascertainable award to a person who suffers one of the scheduled injuries. 5 There is no indication in the legislative history, however, that providing prompt and certain relief is to be regarded as more important than providing adequate relief, especially in a case, such as this one, in which it is undisputed that the schedule of benefits will not compensate respondent Cross for the wages he has lost and will lose because of his injury.
Although the Court states that the "weight of judicial authority" supports its view, it is able to cite only a single Federal District Court decision in point, 6 namely, Williams v. Donovan, 234 F.Supp. 135 (ED La. 1964), aff'd, 367 F.2d 825 (CA5 1966), cert. denied, 386 U.S. 977 (1967). 7 This contrasts with the consistently held view of the Benefits Review Board, 8 the agency established to administer the LHWCA.  Sokolowski v. Bank of America, 261 N. Y. 57, 184 N. E. 492 (1933), of course, provides scant support for today's decision.  That case was decided after the LHWCA was enacted, and is an uncertain guide, at best, to the intent of the Congress that passed the Act six years earlier.
Thus, the anomalous results the Court's decision imposes upon respondent Cross and other claimants under the LHWCA 9 are not mandated, in my view, by the statute.  It is possible to construe the statute to allow a claimant seeking compensation for permanent partial disability to choose between the schedule and the provisions of § 908 (c)(21).  I think we should follow Baltimore & Phila. Steamboat Co. v. Norton, 284 U.S. 408 (1932), and adopt a liberal construction of the statute so as to avoid the amazingly incongruous result approved by the Court.
I would affirm the judgment of the Court of Appeals.
