OPINION
JUSTICE STEWART delivered the opinion of the Court.
In this case a Kentucky criminal trial judge refused a defendant's request to give the following jury instruction: "The  is not compelled to testify and the fact that he does not cannot be used as an inference of guilt and should not prejudice him in any way." The Supreme Court of Kentucky found no error. 1 We granted certiorari to consider the petitioner's contention that a defendant, upon request, has a right to such an instruction under the Fifth and Fourteenth Amendments of the Constitution.  449 U.S. 819. 2
I
A
In the early morning of December 22, 1978, Officer Deborah Ellison of the Hopkinsville, Kentucky, Police Department, on routine patrol in downtown Hopkinsville, noticed something in the alley between Young's Hardware Store and Edna's Furniture Store.  She backed her car up, flashed her spotlight down the alley, and saw two men stooped alongside one of the buildings.  The men ran off. Officer Ellison drove her squad car down the alley and found a hole in the side of Young's Hardware Store.  She radioed Officer Leroy Davis, whom she knew to be   in the area, informing him that two men had fled from the alley.
Soon after receiving Ellison's call, Officer Davis saw two men run across a street near where he had been patrolling.  The two ran in opposite directions, and Davis proceeded after one of them.  Following a chase, during which he twice lost sight of the man he was pursuing, Davis was finally able to stop him.  The man was later identified as the petitioner, Lonnie Joe Carter.  During the course of the chase, Davis saw the petitioner drop two objects: a gym bag and a radio tuned to a police band.  When apprehended, the petitioner was wearing gloves but no jacket. While Davis was pursuing the petitioner, Officer Ellison inspected the alley near the hole in the building wall.  She found two jackets, along with some merchandise that had apparently been removed from the hardware store.
After arresting the petitioner, Davis brought him to Officer Ellison to see if she could identify him as one of the men she had seen in the alley. Ellison noted that he was of similar height and weight to one of the men in the alley, and that he wore similar clothing, but because it had been too dark to get a good view of the men's faces, she could not make a more positive identification. The petitioner was then taken to police headquarters.
B
The petitioner was subsequently indicted for third-degree burglary of Young's Hardware Store.  The indictment also charged him with being a persistent felony offender, in violation of Ky. Rev. Stat. ยง 532.080 (Supp. 1980), on the basis of previous felony convictions.  At the trial, the voir dire examination of prospective jurors was conducted solely by the judge. 3 The prosecutor's   opening statement recounted the evidence expected to be introduced against the petitioner.  The opening  statement of defense counsel began as follows:
"Let me tell you a little bit about how this system works.  If you listened to Mr. Ruff  you are probably ready to put Lonnie Joe in the penitentiary.  He read you a bill, a true bill that was issued by the Grand Jury.  Now, the Grand Jury is a group of people that meet back here in a room and the defendant is not able or not allowed to present any of his testimony before this group of people.  The only thing that the Grand Jury hears is the prosecution's proof and I would say approximately what Mr. Ruff has said to you. I suppose that most of you would issue a true bill if Mr. Ruff told   you want he has just told you and you didn't have a chance to hear what the defendant had to say for himself.
"Now, that is just completely contrary to our system of law.  A man, as the Judge has already told you, . . . is innocent until . . . proved guilty . . . ."
The prosecution rested after calling Officers Ellison, Davis, another officer, and the owner of Young's Hardware Store.  The trial judge then held a conference, outside of the hearing of the jury, to determine whether the petitioner would testify, and whether the prosecutor would be permitted to impeach the petitioner with his prior felony convictions.  Defense counsel stated:
"Judge, I think possibly the only reservation Mr. Carter might have about testifying would be his impeachment by the use of these previous offenses that he is aware of and has told me about.  I would like to explain to him in front of you what this all means."
Counsel then explained to the petitioner that if he testified the Commonwealth could "use the fact that you have several offenses on your record . . .  impeach your . . . propensity to tell the truth . . . ." Counsel added that in his experience this was "a heavy thing; it is very serious, and I think juries take it very seriously . . . ." The judge indicated that under Kentucky law he had "discretionary control" over the use of prior felony convictions for impeachment, and cautioned the prosecutor that he might be inviting a reversal if he introduced more than three prior felony convictions, strongly suggesting that the prosecutor rely on the most recent convictions only.  The judge then addressed the petitioner:
"THE COURT: . . .  You can sit there and say nothing and it cannot be mentioned if you don't testify but if you do these other convictions can be shown to indicate to the jury that maybe you are not telling the truth.
. . . .
"THE COURT: . . .   talk to Mr. Rogers  and then tell us what you want to do.
. . . .
"THE COURT: Now, Lonnie, you have come back after a private conference with your lawyer, Mr. Rogers and you have told me you have decided not to take the stand?
"LONNIE JOE CARTER: Yes, Sir." 4
Upon returning to open court, the petitioner's counsel advised the court that there would be no testimony introduced on behalf of the defense.  He then requested that the following instruction be given to the jury:
"The  is not compelled to testify and the fact that he does not cannot be used as an inference of guilt and should not prejudice him in any way."
The trial court refused the request.
The prosecutor began his summation by stating that he intended to review the evidence "that we weere privileged to hear," and cautioned the jury to " only what you have heard up here as evidence in this case and not something that you might speculate happened or could have happened . . . ." After mentioning admissions that the petitioner had allegedly made at police headquarters, 5 the prosecutor argued:
"Now that is not controverted whatsoever.  It is not controverted that Lonnie Joe is the man that Miss Ellison saw here.  It is not controverted that Lonnie Joe is the man that Davis caught up here (again pointing to blackboard sketch). It is not controverted that Lonnie Joe had that bag (pointing to bag on reporter's desk) and that radio (pointing to radio) with him.  It is not controverted that both of those jackets belong to Lonnie Joe.  At least, that is what he told the police department.  But, at any rate, that is all we have to go on . . . ."
The prosecutor continued that if there was a reasonable explanation why the petitioner ran when he saw the police, it was "not in the record." 6
The jury found the petitioner guilty, recommending a sentence of two years.  The recidivist phase of the trial followed.  The prosecutor presented evidence of the previous felony convictions that had been listed in the indictment. The defense presented no evidence, and the jury found the petitioner guilty as a persistent offender, sentencing him to the maximum term of 20 years in prison.
Upon appeal, the Kentucky Supreme Court rejected the argument that the Fifth and Fourteenth Amendments to the United States Constitution require that a criminal trial judge give the jury an instruction such as was requested here.  In concluding that the trial judge did not commit error by refusing to give the requested instruction, the court pointed to Ky. Rev. Stat. ยง 421.225 (Supp. 1980), which provides:
"In any criminal or penal prosecution the defendant, on his own request, shall be allowed to testify in his own behalf, but his failure to do so shall not be commented upon or create any presumption against him."
Holding that the jury instruction requested by counsel would have required the trial judge to "comment upon" the defendant's failure to testify, the court cited its previous decision in Green v. Commonwealth, 488 S. W. 2d 339, as controlling.
II
A
The constitutional question presented by this case is one the Court   has specifically anticipated and reserved, first in Griffin v. California, 380 U.S. 609, 615, n. 6, and more recently in Lakeside v. Oregon, 435 U.S. 333, 337. But, as a question of federal statutory law, it was resolved by a unanimous Court over 40 years ago in Bruno v. United States, 308 U.S. 287. The petitioner in Bruno was a defendant in a federal criminal trial who had requested a jury instruction similar to the one requested by the petitioner in this case. 7 The Court, addressing the question whether Bruno "had the indefeasible right" that his proffered instruction be given to the jury, decided that a federal statute, 8 which prohibits the creation of any presumption from a defendant's failure to testify, required that the "substance of the denied request should have been granted . . . ." Id., at 294. 9
The Griffin case came here shortly after the Court had held that  the Fifth Amendment command that no person "shall be compelled in any criminal case to be a witness against himself" is applicable against the States through the Fourteenth Amendment.  Malloy v. Hogan, 378 U.S. 1. 10 In Griffin, the Court considered the question whether it is a violation of the Fifth and Fourteenth Amendments to invite a jury in a state criminal trial to draw an unfavorable inference from a defendant's failure to testify. The trial judge had there instructed the jury that "a defendant has a constitutional right not to testify," and that the defendant's exercise of that right "does not create a presumption of guilt nor by itself warrant an inference of guilt" nor "relieve the prosecution of any of its burden of proof." But the instruction additionally permitted the jury to "take that failure into consideration as tending to indicate the truth of  evidence and as indicating that among the inferences that may be reasonably drawn therefrom those unfavorable to the defendant are the more probable." 380 U.S., at 610.
This Court set aside Griffin's conviction because "the Fifth Amendment . . . forbids either comment by the prosecution on the accused's silence or instructions by the court that such silence is evidence of guilt." Id.,   at 615. 11 It condemned adverse comment on a defendant's failure to testify as reminiscent of the "'inquisitorial system of criminal justice,'"   id., at 614, quoting Murphy v. Waterfront Comm'n, 378 U.S. 52, 55, and concluded that such comment effected a court-imposed penalty upon the defendant that was unacceptable because " cuts down on the privilege by making its assertion costly." 380 U.S., at 614. 12
The Court returned to a consideration of the Fifth Amendment and jury instructions in Lakeside v. Oregon, 435 U.S. 333, where the question was whether the giving of a "no-inference" instruction over defense objection violates the Constitution.  Despite trial counsel's complaint that his strategy was to avoid any mention of his client's failure to testify, a no-inference instruction 13 was given by the trial judge.  The petitioner contended that when a trial judge in any way draws the jury's attention to a defendant's failure to testify, unless the defendant acquiesces, the court invades the defendant's privilege against compulsory self-incrimination. This argument was rejected.
The Lakeside Court reasoned that the Fifth and Fourteenth Amendments   bar only adverse comment on a defendant's failure to testify, and that "a judge's instruction that the jury must draw no adverse inferences of any kind from the defendant's exercise of his privilege not to testify is 'comment' of an entirely different order." Id., at 339. The purpose of such an instruction, the Court stated, "is to remove from the jury's deliberations any influence of unspoken adverse inferences," and "cannot provide the pressure on a defendant found impermissible in Griffin." Ibid.
The Court observed in Lakeside that the petitioner's argument there rested on "two very doubtful assumptions:"
"First, that the jurors have not noticed that the defendant did not testify and will not, therefore, draw adverse inferences on their own.  Second, that the jurors will totally disregard the instruction, and affirmatively give weight to what they have been told not to consider at all.  Federal constitutional law cannot rest on speculative assumptions so dubious as these." Id., at 340 (footnote omitted).
Finally, the Court stressed that " very purpose" of a jury instruction is to direct the jurors' attention to important legal concepts "that must not be misunderstood, such as reasonable doubt and burden of proof," and emphasized that instruction "in the meaning of the privilege against compulsory self-incrimination is no different." Ibid.
B
The inclusion of the privilege against compulsory self-incrimination 14 in the Fifth Amendment
"reflects many of our fundamental values and most noble aspirations: our unwillingness to subject those suspected of crime to the cruel trilemma of self-accusation, perjury or contempt; . . . our fear that self-incriminating statements will be elicited by inhumane treatment and abuses; our sense of fair play which dictates 'a fair state-individual balance by requiring the government . . . , in its contest with the individual to shoulder the entire load,' . . . ; our distrust of self-deprecatory statements; and our realization that the privilege, while sometimes 'a shelter to the guilty,' is often 'a protection to the innocent.'" Murphy v. Waterfront Comm'n, supra, at 55.15
The principles enunciated in our cases construing this privilege, against both statutory and constitutional backdrops, lead unmistakably to the conclusion that the Fifth Amendment requires that a criminal trial judge must give a "no-adverse-inference" jury instruction when requested by a defendant to do so.
In Bruno, the Court declared that the failure to instruct as requested was not a mere "technical  . . . which  not affect . . . substantial rights . . . ." It stated that the "right of an accused to insist on" the privilege to remain silent is " a very different order of importance . . ." from the "mere etiquette of trials and . . . the formalities and minutiae of procedure." 308 U.S., at 293-294. Thus, while the Bruno Court relied on the authority of a federal statute, it is plain that its opinion was influenced by the absolute constitutional guarantee against compulsory self-incrimination. 16
The Griffin case stands for the proposition that   a defendant must pay no court-imposed price for the exercise of his constitutional privilege not to testify.  The penalty was exacted in Griffin by adverse comment on the defendant's silence; the penalty may be just as severe when there is no adverse comment, but when the jury is left to roam at large with only its untutored instincts to guide it, to draw from the defendant's silence broad inferences of guilt. Even without adverse comment, the members of a jury, unless instructed otherwise, may well draw adverse inferences from a defendant's silence. 17
The significance of a cautionary instruction was forcefully acknowledged in Lakeside, where the Court found no constitutional error even when a no-inference instruction was given over a defendant's objection.  The salutary purpose of the instruction, "to remove from the jury's deliberations any influence of unspoken adverse inferences," was deemed so important that it there outweighed the defendant's own preferred tactics. 18
We have repeatedly recognized that   "instructing a jury in the basic constitutional principles that govern the administration of criminal justice," Lakeside, 435 U.S., at 342, is often necessary. 19 Jurors are not experts in legal principles; to function effectively, and justly, they must be accurately instructed in the law.  Such instructions are perhaps nowhere more important than in the context of the Fifth Amendment privilege against compulsory self-incrimination, since " many, even those who should be better advised, view this privilege as a shelter for wrongdoers.  They too readily assume that those who invoke it are . . . guilty of crime . . . ." Ullman v. United States, 350 U.S. 422, 426. And, as the Court has stated, "we have not yet attained that certitude about the human mind which would justify us in . . . a dogmatic assumption that jurors, if properly admonished, neither could nor would heed the instructions of the trial court . . . ." Bruno, 308 U.S., at 294. 20
A trial judge has a powerful tool at his disposal to protect the constitutional privilege -- the jury instruction -- and he has an affirmative constitutional obligation to use that tool when a defendant seeks its employment.  No judge can prevent jurors from speculating about why a defendant stands mute in the face of a criminal accusation, but a judge can, and must, if requested to do so, use the unique power of the jury instruction to reduce that speculation to a minimum. 21
C
The only state interest advanced by Kentucky in refusing a request for such a jury instruction is protection of the defendant: "the requested 'no inference' instruction . . . would have been a direct 'comment' by the court and would have emphasized the fact that the accused had not testified in his own behalf." Green v. Commonwealth, 488 S. W. 2d, at 341. This purported justification was specifically rejected in the Lakeside case, where the Court noted that " would be strange indeed to conclude that this cautionary instruction violates the very constitutional provision it is intended to protect." 435 U.S., at 339.
Kentucky also argues that in the circumstances of this case the jurors knew they could not make adverse inferences from the petitioner's election to remain silent because they were instructed to determine guilt "from the evidence alone," and because failure to testify is not evidence.  The Commonwealth's argument is unpersuasive.  Jurors are not lawyers; they do not know the technical meaning of "evidence." They can be expected to notice a defendant's failure to testify, and, without limiting instruction, to speculate about incriminating inferences from a defendant's silence.
The other trial instructions and arguments of counsel that the petitioner's jurors heard at the trial of this case were no substitute for the explicit instruction that the petitioner's lawyer requested.  Although the jury was instructed that " law presumes a defendant to be innocent," it may be doubted that this instruction contributed in a significant way to the jurors' proper understanding of the petitioner's failure to testify. Without question, the Fifth Amendment privilege and the presumption of innocence are closely aligned.  But these principles serve different functions, and we cannot say that the jury would not have derived "significant additional guidance," Taylor v. Kentucky, 436 U.S. 478, 484, from the instruction requested.  See United States v. Bain, 596 F.2d 120 (CA5); United States v. English, 409 F.2d 200, 201 (CA3). And most certainly, defense counsel's own argument that the petitioner "doesn't have to take the stand . . .  doesn't have to do anything" cannot have had the purging effect that an instruction from the judge would have had. " of counsel cannot substitute for instructions by the court." Taylor v. Kentucky, supra, at 489. 22
Finally, Kentucky argues that because the evidence of petitioner's guilt was "overwhelming and could not be explained," any constitutional error committed by the state courts was harmless.  Chapman v. California, 386 U.S. 18. While it is arguable that a refusal to give an instruction similar to the one that was requested here can never be harmless, cf.  Bruno, supra, at 293, we decline to reach the issue, because it was not presented to or considered by the Supreme Court of Kentucky.  See Sandstrom v. Montana, 442 U.S. 510, 527.
III
The freedom of a defendant in a criminal trial to remain silent "unless he chooses to speak in the unfettered exercise of his own will" is guaranteed by the Fifth Amendment and made applicable to state criminal proceedings through the Fourteenth.  Malloy v. Hogan, 378 U.S., at 8. And the Constitution further guarantees that no adverse inferences are to be drawn from the exercise of that privilege.  Griffin v. California, 380 U.S. 609. Just as adverse comment on a defendant's silence "cuts down on the privilege by making its assertion costly," id., at 614, the failure to limit the jurors' speculation on the meaning of that silence, when the defendant makes a timely request that a prophylactic instruction be given, exacts an impermissible toll on the full and free exercise of the privilege. Accordingly, we hold that   a state trial judge has the constitutional   obligation, upon proper request, to minimize the danger that the jury will give evidentiary weight to a defendant's failure to testify.
For the reasons stated, the judgment is reversed, and the case is remanded to the Supreme Court of Kentucky for further proceedings not inconsistent with this opinion.
It is so ordered.
<concur author="POWELL" text="TRUE">
CONCUR BY: POWELL; STEVENS
JUSTICE POWELL, concurring.
Although joining the opinion of the Court, I write briefly to make clear that, for me, this result is required by precedent, not by what I think the Constitution should require.
The Fifth Amendment, applicable to the States through the Fourteenth, provides that no person "shall be compelled in any criminal case to be a witness against himself." The question in Griffin v. California, 380 U.S. 609 (1965), was whether this proscription was violated if jurors were told that they could draw inferences from a defendant's failure to testify. The Court held that neither the judge nor the prosecutor could suggest that jurors draw such inferences.   A defendant who chooses not to testify hardly can claim that he was compelled to testify.  The Court also held, nevertheless, that any "penalty imposed by courts for exercising  constitutional privilege" cannot be tolerated because " cuts down on the privilege by making its assertion costly." Id., at 614.
JUSTICE STEWART's dissenting opinion in Griffin, in which JUSTICE WHITE joined, responded persuasively to this departure from the language and purpose of the Self-Incrimination Clause.  JUSTICE STEWART wrote:
"We must determine whether the petitioner has been 'compelled . . . to be a witness against himself.' Compulsion is the focus of the inquiry.  Certainly, if any compulsion be detected in the California procedure, it is of a dramatically different and less palpable nature than that involved in the procedures which historically gave rise to the Fifth Amendment guarantee. . . .
"I think that the Court in this case stretches the concept of compulsion beyond all reasonable bounds, and that whatever compulsion may exist derives from the defendant's choice not to testify, not from any comment by court or counsel. . . .   jury will, of course, realize  quite evident fact , even though the choice goes unmentioned." Id., at 620-621.
The one person who usually knows most about the critical facts is the accused. For reasons deeply rooted in the history we share with England, the Bill of Rights included the Self-Incrimination Clause, which enables a defendant in a criminal trial to elect to make no contribution to the fact-finding process. But nothing in the Clause requires that jurors not draw logical inferences when a defendant chooses not to explain incriminating circumstances.  Jurors have been instructed that the defendant is presumed to be innocent and that this presumption can be overridden only by evidence beyond a reasonable doubt.  California Chief Justice Traynor commented that judges and prosecutors should be able to explain that "a jury  draw unfavorable inferences from the defendant's failure to explain or refute evidence when he could reasonably be expected to do so.  Such comment would not be evidence and would do no more than make clear to the jury the extent of its freedom in drawing inferences." Traynor, The Devils of Due Process in Criminal Detection, Detention, and Trial, 33 U. Chi. L. Rev. 657, 677 (1966); accord, Schaefer, Police Interrogation and the Privilege Against Self-Incrimination, 61 NW. U. L. Rev. 506, 520 (1966).
I therefore would have joined JUSTICES STEWART and WHITE in dissent in Griffin. But Griffin is now the law, and based on that case the present petitioner was entitled to the jury instruction that he requested.  I therefore join the opinion of the Court.
<concur author="STEVENS" text="TRUE">
JUSTICE STEVENS, with whom JUSTICE BRENNAN joins, concurring.
While I join the Court's opinion, I add this comment to emphasize that today's holding is limited to cases in which the defendant has requested that the jury be instructed not to draw an inference of guilt from the defendant's failure to testify. I remain convinced that the question whether such an instruction should be given in any specific case -- like the question whether the defendant should testify on his own behalf -- should be answered by the defendant and his lawyer, not by the State.  See Lakeside v. Oregon, 435 U.S. 333, 343-348 (1978) (STEVENS, J., dissenting).
<dissent author="REHNQUIST" text="TRUE">
DISSENT BY: REHNQUIST
JUSTICE REHNQUIST, dissenting.
The Court has reached its conclusion in this case by a series of steps only the first of which is traceable to the United States Constitution.  Yet since the result of the Court's decision is to reverse the judgment of the Supreme Court of Kentucky, the decision must obviously rest upon the fact that the decision of that court is inconsistent with the United States Constitution.
As the Court points out, the constitutional question presented by this case is one the Court has specifically anticipated and reserved, first in Griffin v. California, 380 U.S. 609, 615, n. 6 (1965), and more recently in Lakeside v. Oregon, 435 U.S. 333 (1978).
But the Court, with a singular paucity of reasoning, points to the fact that in a case arising in the federal system, a defendant requesting a charge similar to that which petitioner requested here was held by this Court to be entitled to it.  The differences, of course, are obvious: In the first place, the case of Bruno v. United States, 308 U.S. 287 (1939), was governed by the federal statute there cited:
"The accused could 'at his own request but not otherwise be a competent witness. And his failure to make such a request shall not create any presumption against him.' Such was the command of the law-makers.  The only way Congress could provide that abstention from testifying should not tell against an accused was by an implied direction to judges to exercise their traditional duty in guiding the jury by indicating the considerations relevant to the latter's verdict on the facts. . . .  Concededly the charge requested by Bruno was correct.  The Act of March 16, 1878, gave him the right to invoke it." Id., at 292-293.
Here, of course, the Act of March 16, 1878, does not attempt to govern the procedures or instructions which shall be given in the trial courts of Kentucky. Therefore the Act of Congress which, in Bruno, was stated to entitle a defendant to a charge that no presumption should arise from his refusal to take the stand, is of no relevance whatever to the Court's decision in this case.
If we begin with the relevant provisions of the Constitution, which is where an unsophisticated lawyer or layman would probably think we should begin, we find the provision in the Fifth Amendment stating that " person . . . shall be compelled in any criminal case to be a witness against himself . . . ." Until the mysterious process of transmogrification by which this Amendment was held to be "incorporated" and made applicable to the States by the Fourteenth Amendment in Malloy v. Hogan, 378 U.S. 1 (1964), the provision itself would not have regulated the conduct of criminal trials in Kentucky.  But even if it did, no one here claims that the defendant was forced to take the stand against his will or to testify against himself inconsistently with the provisions of the Fifth Amendment. The claim is rather that in Griffin v. California, supra, the Court, building on the language of the Constitution itself and on Malloy, supra, held that a charge to the effect that any evidence or facts adduced against the defendant which he could be reasonably expected to deny or explain could be taken into consideration by the jury violated the constitutional   privilege against compulsory self-incrimination. The author of the present opinion dissented from that holding, stating:
"The formulation of procedural rules to govern the administration of criminal justice in the various States is properly a matter of local concern.  We are charged with no general supervisory power over such matters; our only legitimate function is to prevent violations of the Constitution's commands." 380 U.S., at 623.
But even Griffin, supra, did not go as far as the present opinion, for as that opinion makes clear it left open the question of whether a state-court defendant was entitled as a matter of right to a charge that his refusal to take the stand should not be taken into consideration against him by the jury.  The Court now decides that he is entitled to such a charge, and, I believe, in doing so, wholly retreats from the statement in the Griffin dissent that " formulation of procedural rules to govern the administration of criminal justice in the various States is properly a matter of local concern."
The Court's opinion states, ante, at 301, that " Griffin case stands for the proposition that a defendant must pay no court-imposed price for the exercise of his constitutional privilege not to testify." Such Thomistic reasoning is now carried from the constitutional provision itself, to the Griffin case, to the present case, and where it will stop no one can know.  The concept of "burdens" and "penalties" is such a vague one that the Court's decision allows a criminal defendant in a state proceeding virtually to take from the trial judge any control over the instructions to be given to the jury in the case being tried.  I can find no more apt words with which to conclude this dissent than those stated by Justice Harlan, concurring in the Court's opinion in Griffin:
"Although compelled to concur in this decision, I am free to express the hope that the Court will eventually return to constitutional paths which, until recently, it has followed throughout its history." 380 U.S., at 617.
