OPINION
JUSTICE BRENNAN delivered the opinion of the Court.
The Tax Injunction Act of 1937 provides that " district courts shall not enjoin, suspend or restrain the assessment, levy or collection of any tax under State law where a plain, speedy and efficient remedy may be had in the courts of such State." 28 U. S. C. § 1341. The question we must decide in this case is whether an Illinois remedy which requires property owners contesting their property taxes to pay under protest and if successful obtain a refund without interest in two years is "a plain, speedy and efficient remedy" within the meaning of the Act. 1
I
LaSalle National Bank is trustee of a land trust for Patricia Cook, 2 the beneficial owner of property improved with a 22-unit apartment building in the all-black low-income community of East Chicago Heights, Ill., located in Cook County. 3 Respondent alleged that, as of January 1, 1977, her property had a fair market value of $ 46,000.  In accordance with a Cook County ordinance, her property should have been assessed for property tax purposes at 33% of fair market value -- $ 15,180. 4 Instead, for the 1977 tax year, the County Assessor assessed the property at $ 52,150.  As a result, respondent's property tax liability was $ 6,106 instead of $ 1,775, an overcharge of $ 4,331.
Respondent also claimed that the County Assessor "knowingly as official policy or governmental custom maintained, adopted or promulgated policy statements, regulations, decisions and systems of assessment which have produced egregious disparities in assessments throughout the County." Plaintiff's Complaint para. 11, App. 7.  In particular, she cited a study of the Illinois Department of Local Government Affairs showing that, for 1975, property in the same class as respondent's was assessed as low as 3% and as high as 973% of fair market value. She furthermore alleged that such disparities in assessments were "far greater in number and size in older, inner city and county areas, owned, inhabited or used to a larger extent by minorities and poorer people." Ibid. Finally, she contended that the Assessor knew that she had previously challenged the 1974, 1975, and 1976 assessments of her property. 5
Respondent first exhausted her administrative remedy by appealing unsuccessfully for a correction of her 1977 assessment before the Cook County Board of Appeals.  Ill. Rev. Stat., ch. 120, §§ 594 (1), 596, 597, 598, 599 (1977). 6 Her only remaining state remedy was to pay the contested tax under protest, and then to file an objection to the Cook County Collector's Application for Judgment before the Circuit Court of Cook County -- in effect a reverse suit for refund. 7 §§ 675, 716.  Although Illinois' statutory refund procedure could theoretically provide a final resolution of the dispute within one year of payment of the tax under protest, 8 respondent alleged that the customary delay from the time of payment until the receipt of refund upon successful protest is two years. 9 The tax refund is not accompanied by a payment of interest. 10 Clarendon Associates v. Korzen, 56 Ill. 2d 101, 109, 306 N. E. 2d 299, 303 (1973); Lakefront Realty Corp. v. Lorenz, 19 Ill. 2d 415, 422-423, 167 N. E. 2d 236, 240-241 (1960).
Respondent refused to pay her 1977 property taxes and instead brought this 42 U. S. C. § 1983 action in the United States District Court for the Northern   District of Illinois, seeking preliminary and permanent injunctive relief to prevent petitioner Rosewell 11 from publishing an advertisement of notice and the intended date of Application for Judgment, from applying for judgment and order of sale against her property, and from selling it. Respondent contended that, by requiring payment of taxes 3 1/2 times the lawful amount, petitioners deprived her of equal protection and due process secured by the Fourteenth Amendment of the United States Constitution, and violated state constitutional and statutory rights as well.  Respondent further alleged that she had no plain, speedy, and efficient remedy in the Illinois courts.
Petitioners moved to dismiss, claiming that actions challenging state tax assessments are not cognizable under 42 U. S. C. § 1983 and 28 U. S. C. § 1343, 12 and that Illinois' statutory refund procedure is a plain, speedy, and efficient remedy even though it fails to pay interest. Defendants' Motion to Dismiss, App. 11.
The District Court denied respondent's motion for a preliminary injunction and dismissed the complaint for want of jurisdiction under 28 U. S. C. § 1341. 13 App. to Pet. for Cert. 20a-21a.  However, the court enjoined petitioner Rosewell from proceeding to judgment and order of sale against respondent's property pending appeal to the United States Court of Appeals for the Seventh Circuit. Fed. Rule Civ.  Proc. 62 (c).  The Court of Appeals reversed the District Court, holding that the Tax Injunction Act did not bar federal district court jurisdiction because Illinois' procedure of no-interest refunds after two years was not "a plain, speedy and efficient remedy." 604 F.2d 530, 536-537 (1979). 14 A petition for rehearing and suggestion for rehearing en banc was denied.  Id., at 530. We granted certiorari, 445 U.S. 925 (1980), and now reverse.
II
At the outset, it must be recognized that the issue we decide is one of statutory construction.  Our task is to determine whether the Illinois refund procedure constitutes "a plain, speedy and efficient remedy . . . in the courts of such State" within the meaning of the Tax Injunction Act, 28   U. S. C. § 1341, thereby barring federal jurisdiction to grant injunctive relief. Our review of the plain language of the Act, its legislative history, and its underlying purpose persuades us that the Court of Appeals erred in holding that the Illinois remedy is not "a plain, speedy and efficient remedy."
A
The starting point of our inquiry is the plain language of the statute itself.  Reiter v. Sonotone Corp., 442 U.S. 330, 337 (1979);62 Cases of Jam v. United States, 340 U.S. 593, 596 (1951) . See EPA v. National Crushed Stone Assn., 449 U.S. 64, 73 (1980).  The Tax Injunction Act generally prohibits federal district courts from enjoining state tax administration except in instances where the state-court remedy is not "plain, speedy and efficient." On its face, the "plain, speedy and efficient remedy" exception appears to require a state-court remedy that meets certain minimal procedural criteria.  The Court has only occasionally sought to define the meaning of the exception since passage of the Act in 1937.  When it has done so, however, the Court has emphasized a procedural interpretation in defining both the entire phrase and its individual word components.
Discussing the general meaning of the phrase, the Court, in Tully v. Griffin, Inc., 429 U.S. 68, 74 (1976), described its "basic inquiry" as "whether under New York law there is a 'plain, speedy and efficient' way for  to press its constitutional claims while preserving the right to challenge the amount of tax due." More directly, in Great Lakes Dredge & Dock Co. v. Huffman, 319 U.S. 293, 300-301 (1943), the  Court stated:
" is the court's duty to withhold such relief when, as in the present case, it appears that the state legislature has provided that on payment of any challenged tax to the appropriate state officer, the taxpayer may maintain a suit to recover it back.  In such a suit he may assert his federal rights and secure a review of them by this Court.  This affords an adequate remedy to the taxpayer, and at the same time leaves undisturbed the state's administration of its taxes." (Emphasis added). 15
See Hillsborough v. Cromwell, 326 U.S. 620, 625 (1946) (issue is "whether the State affords full protection to the federal rights").
What little can be gleaned from the legislative history of the Act on the phrase "plain, speedy and efficient remedy" lends further support to a procedural interpretation.  Senator Bone, the Act's primary sponsor, referred to the "plain, speedy and efficient remedy" provision and then stated: "Thus a full hearing and judicial determination of the controversy is assured." 81 Cong. Rec. 1416 (1937).  The Senate Report accompanying the Act mirrors Senator Bone's understanding, adding that " appeal to the Supreme Court of the United States is available as in other cases." S. Rep. No. 1035, 75th Cong., 1st Sess., 2 (1937).
The phrase "a plain, speedy and efficient remedy" in the Tax Injunction Act was "modeled" after verbatim language in the Johnson Act of 1934, 16 an Act prohibiting federal-court interference with orders issued by state administrative agencies to public utilities.  As Senator Bone made clear, " of the arguments which were used in support of the Johnson Act . . . apply in like manner" to the Tax Injunction Act. 81 Cong. Rec. 1416 (1937).  Our examination of the Johnson Act and its legislative history reveals the same procedural emphasis as found in the Tax Injunction Act and its legislative history. As gloss on the words "a plain, speedy and efficient remedy," the Senate Report on the Johnson Act spoke of state laws that provided for an appeal from the determination of the state agency by any dissatisfied party.  S. Rep. No. 701, 72d Cong., 1st Sess., 1-2 (1932).  The Senate Report continued: "This appeal is taken to the courts of the State, thus giving to both sides of any controversy which may arise a full hearing and judicial determination of the controversy." Id., at 2 (emphasis added).
There is no doubt that   the Illinois state-court refund procedure provides the taxpayer with a "full hearing and judicial determination" at which she may raise any and all constitutional objections to the tax.  LaSalle National Bank v. County of Cook, 57 Ill. 2d 318, 324, 312 N. E. 2d 252, 255-256 (1974). Appeal to the higher Illinois courts is authorized, Ill. Rev. Stat., ch. 120, § 675 (1977), and review is ultimately available in this Court, 28 U. S. C. § 1257. Respondent does not allege any procedural defect in the Illinois remedy, other than delay, 17 that would preclude preservation and consideration of her federal rights, since she is free to raise her equal protection and due process federal constitutional objections during the Application for Judgment proceedings before the Circuit Court of Cook County. 18 Rather, respondent's argument -- that Illinois' failure to pay interest on the tax refund makes the remedy not "plain, speedy and efficient   " -- appears to address a more substantive concern.  Whether she has any "federal right" to receive interest -- a right she has not asserted and on which we express no view -- it would appear that she could assert this right in the state-court proceeding.  The procedural mechanism for correction of her tax bill remains the same, however, whether interest is paid or not. 19
B
A procedural interpretation of the phrase "a plain, speedy and efficient remedy," and the procedural sufficiency of Illinois' remedy, are supported further by analysis of the phrase's individual words.  According to the 1934 edition of Webster's New International Dictionary, plain means "clear" or "manifest," speedy means "quick," efficient means "characterized by effective activity," and a remedy is the "legal means to recover a right . . . or obtain redress for . . . a wrong." Webster's New International Dictionary of the English Language 819, 1878, 2106, 2418 (2d ed. 1934). 20
While the Court has never addressed the meaning of the word "speedy," it has interpreted the words "plain" and "efficient." Thus,   the Court suggested that "uncertainty concerning a State's remedy may make it less than 'plain' under 28 U. S. C. § 1341." Tully v. Griffin, Inc., 429 U.S., at 76. Earlier cases, without making a direct connection to the word "plain," have held that "uncertainty" surrounding a state-court remedy lifts the bar to federal-court jurisdiction.  Hillsborough v. Cromwell, 326 U.S., at 625-626. 21 Respondent has made no argument that the Illinois refund procedure is uncertain or otherwise unclear.  There is no question that under the Illinois procedure, the court will hear and decide any federal claim.  Paying interest or eliminating delay would not make the remedy any more "plain."
This Court's interpretation of the word "efficient" has also stressed procedural elements.  In Tully, the Court commented that "a State's remedy does not become 'inefficient,' merely because a taxpayer must travel across a state line in order to resist or challenge the taxes sought to be imposed." 429 U.S., at 73. In addition, without explicitly mentioning the word "efficient," we have permitted federal-court jurisdiction when the taxpayer's state-court remedy would require a multiplicity of suits, Georgia Railroad & Banking Co. v. Redwine , 342 U.S. 299, 303 (1952) (where remedy "would require the filing of over three hundred separate claims in fourteen different counties to protect the single federal claim asserted by "), or when the remedy would allow a challenge against only one of many taxing authorities, id., at 301, 303 (where suit-for-refund remedy applied only to state taxes, yet taxpayer railroad also wanted to challenge on the same basis taxes paid to counties, school districts, and municipalities). Because the Illinois remedy imposes no unusual hardship on respondent requiring ineffectual activity or an unnecessary expenditure of time or energy, we cannot say that it is not "efficient." 22
This Court has never expressly discussed the meaning of the word "speedy," an issue that is squarely presented in this case.  We must decide whether Illinois' refund after two years qualifies as a "speedy" remedy. "Speedy" is perforce a relative concept, and we must assess the 2-year delay against the usual time for similar litigation.  It surely is no secret that state and federal trial courts have been beset by docket congestion and delay for many years. 23 Whether this is a necessary, let alone a reasonable, condition of 20th-century litigation is beside the point: The fact of the matter is that legal conflicts are not resolved as quickly as we would like.
In 1976, the median number of days from filing a complaint to disposition of a civil trial matter in 13 urban trial courts ranged from 357 to 980.  National Center for State Courts, Justice Delayed 10-11 (1978). 24 In 7 of the 13, over 30% of the civil cases took more than two years from start to finish.  Id., at 13.  The Cook County Circuit Court had a similar record: from 1974 to 1975, the average time from date of filing to verdict was about 40 months.  U.S. Department of Justice, State Court Caseload Statistics: The State of the Art 7 (1978).  Federal district courts have not fared much better.  As of 1980, the median time interval from filing to disposition for civil cases going to trial was 20 months; 10% of those took more than 46 months.  Annual Report of the Director of the Administrative Office of the U.S. Courts 81, A-30 (1980). For the United States District Court for the Northern District of Illinois, the District in which respondent brought this suit, the median time interval was 23 months, with 10% of all cases over 53 months.  Id., at A-31. 25
Cast in this light, respondent's 2-year wait, regrettably, is not unusual.  Nowhere in the Tax Injunction Act did Congress suggest that the remedy must be the speediest. 26 The payment of interest might make the wait more tolerable, but it would not affect the amount of time necessary to adjudicate respondent's federal claims.  Limiting ourselves to the circumstances of the instant case, we cannot say that respondent's 2-year delay falls outside the boundary of a "speedy" remedy. 27
C
The overall purpose of the Tax Injunction Act is consistent with the view that the "plain, speedy and efficient remedy" exception to the Act's prohibition was only designed to require that the state remedy satisfy certain procedural criteria, and that Illinois' refund procedure meets such criteria.  The statute "has its roots in equity practice, in principles of federalism, and in recognition of the imperative need of a State to administer its own fiscal operations." Tully v. Griffin, Inc., 429 U.S., at 73. 28 This last consideration was the principal motivating force behind the Act: this legislation was first and foremost a vehicle to limit drastically federal district court jurisdiction to interfere with so important a local concern as the collection of taxes.  81 Cong. Rec. 1415 (1937) (remarks of Sen. Bone); Great Lakes Dredge & Dock Co. v. Huffman, 319 U.S., at 301 (Act "predicated upon the desirability of freeing, from interference by the federal courts, state procedures which authorize litigation challenging a tax after the tax has been paid"). 29
When it passed the Act, Congress knew that state tax systems commonly provided for payment of taxes under protest with subsequent refund as their exclusive remedy.  The Senate Report to the Act noted:
"It is the common practice for statutes of the various States to forbid actions in State courts to enjoin the collection of State and county taxes unless the tax law is invalid or the property is exempt from taxation, and these statutes generally provide that taxpayers may contest their taxes only in refund actions after payment under protest. This type of State legislation makes it possible for the States and their various agencies to survive while long-drawn-out tax litigation is in progress." S. Rep. No. 1035, 75th Cong., 1st Sess., 1 (1937).
See H. R. Rep. No. 1503, 75th Cong., 1st Sess., 2 (1937).  See also Matthews v. Rodgers, 284 U.S. 521, 526 (1932).
It is only common sense to presume that Congress was also aware that some of these same States did not pay interest on their refunds to taxpayers, following the then-familiar rule that interest in refund actions was recoverable only when expressly allowed by statute.  3 T. Cooley,  Law of Taxation § 1308, pp. 2596-2597 (4th ed. 1924). 30 It would be wholly unreasonable,   therefore, to construe a statute passed to limit federal-court interference in state tax matters to mean that Congress nevertheless wanted taxpayers from States not paying interest on refunds to have unimpaired access to the federal courts.  If Congress had meant to carve out such an expansive exception, one would expect to find some mention of it.  The statute's broad prophylactic language is incompatible with such an interpretation.
III
For the most part, respondent rests her case on the persuasiveness of a syllogism: the Tax Injunction Act is coterminous with pre-1937 federal equity treatment of challenges to state taxes; federal equity practice at that time viewed a no-interest refund remedy as inadequate; 31 therefore, it must follow that the Tax Injunction Act would view a no-interest refund remedy as inadequate, thereby authorizing federal jurisdiction. Brief for Respondent 21.  This argument also forms part of the basis for the Court of Appeals' decision.  604 F.2d, at 533, n. 4.And even petitioners, Brief for Petitioners 40, suggest that the Tax Injunction Act is "a congressional confirmation of the Court's prior federal equity practice in the area of state and local taxation." 32
We are unpersuaded.  It is true that post-1937 Court cases have suggested that the Tax Injunction Act recognized and sanctioned pre-existing federal equity practice.  See Moe v. Salish & Kootenai Tribes, 425 U.S. 463, 470 (1976); Hillsborough v. Cromwell, 326 U.S., at 622-623; Great Lakes Dredge & Dock Co. v. Huffman, 319 U.S., at 298-299. But these cases do no more than confirm that "the statute has its roots in equity practice," Tully v. Griffin, Inc., 429 U.S., at 73, and that it was a longstanding rule of federal equity to keep out of state tax matters as long as a "plain, adequate and complete remedy" could be had at law.  Hillsborough v. Cromwell, supra, at 622-623. Nothing in our decisions suggests that every wrinkle of federal equity practice was codified, intact, by Congress. 33
Indeed, Congress, among other things, legislated to solve an existing problem by cutting back federal equity jurisdiction. Senator Bone commented that the "existing practice of the Federal courts to entertain tax-injunction suits  it possible for foreign corporations to withhold from a State and its governmental subdivisions taxes in such vast amounts and for such long periods as to disrupt State and county finances, and thus make it possible for such corporations to determine for themselves the amount of taxes they will pay." 81 Cong. Rec. 1416 (1937) (emphasis added).  See S. Rep. No. 1035, 75th Cong., 1st Sess., 2d (1937).  He furthermore noted that " is made that the bill is not to affect suits pending at the time of its enactment." 81 Cong. Rec., at 1415.  Thus, Congress plainly did not intend to permit the federal courts after passage of the Tax Injunction Act to entertain suits in all cases cognizable by them prior to the Act. 34
Furthermore, Congress did not equate § 1341's "plain, speedy and efficient" with equity's "plain, adequate and complete." Ever since the early days of Congress, this "plain, adequate and complete" standard of federal equity practice had been codified into statutory form.  1 Stat. 82. 35 And it was not until 1948, more than 10 years after passage of the Tax Injunction Act, that the "Suits in Equity" statute was repealed.  28 U. S. C. § 384 (1946 ed.) (repealed June 25, 1948).  Against this background, we will not interpret the Tax Injunction Act as substantially redundant of § 384.
IV
Finally, we note that the reasons supporting federal non-interference are just as compelling today as they were in 1937.  If federal injunctive relief were available,
"state tax administration might be thrown into disarray, and taxpayers might escape the ordinary procedural requirements imposed by state law.  During the pendency of the federal suit the collection of revenue under the challenged law might be obstructed, with consequent damage to the State's budget, and perhaps a shift to the State of the risk of taxpayer insolvency.  Moreover, federal constitutional issues are likely to turn on questions of state tax law, which, like issues of state regulatory law, are more properly heard in the state courts." Perez v. Ledesma, 401 U.S. 82, 128, n. 17 (1971) (BRENNAN, J., concurring in part and dissenting in part).
The compelling nature of these considerations is underscored by the dependency of state budgets on the receipt of local tax revenues.  In 1978, States derived over 61% of their revenue from property, sales, income, and other taxes. Advisory Commission on Intergovernmental Relations, Significant Features of Fiscal Federalism 53, 56 (1980).  For Illinois, the percentage was even higher -- 67.4%.  Ibid.  The property tax is by far the most important source of tax revenue for cities and counties.  For the year 1977-1978, almost 33% of all their income nationwide came from the local property tax; for Illinois' local governments, the amount was greater -- 39.2%.  Id., at 78.
The experience of Cook County itself demonstrates how ominous would be the potential for havoc should federal injunctive relief be widely available.  The county collected over $ 1.5 billion in real estate taxes   for the tax year 1975.  Ganz & Laswell, Review of Real Estate Assessments -- Cook County (Chicago) vs. Remainder of Illinois, 11 John Marshall J. Prac. & Proc. 19, and n. 2 (1977). During the same year, the number of complaints filed with the Cook County Board of Appeals totaled 22, 262.  Id., at 31, n. 61. We may readily appreciate the difficulties encountered by the county should a substantial portion of its rightful tax revenue be tied up in   injunction actions. 36 If each of these complaints alleged entitlement to a refund of around $ 5,000, as does respondent, over $ 113 million in revenues potentially could be encumbered in federal-court litigation.  See also City of New York, Annual Report of the Tax Commission for Fiscal Year 1978-1979, p. 14 (1979) (41,449 applications for correction of taxes owed concerning 48,170 parcels of land,  of which 40,793 applications concerning 47,512 parcels of land involved hearings).
Accordingly, we hold that Illinois' legal remedy that provides property owners paying property taxes under protest a refund without interest in two years is "a plain, speedy and efficient remedy" under the Tax Injunction Act.
Reversed.
<concur author="BLACKMUN" text="TRUE">
CONCUR BY: BLACKMUN
JUSTICE BLACKMUN, concurring.
I join the Court's opinion, but I must confess that in doing so I participate in the decision with a distinct lack of enthusiasm.  I am aware of just how frustrating it can be for a conscientious property taxpayer who encounters what appears to him to be unfairness, arbitrariness, delay, and an inadequacy of redress even though he might ultimately prevail on his basic contentions about existing property tax assessment and collection methods. Nearly every municipality encounters like criticism.  JUSTICE STEVENS' dissent, however, indicates that Cook County's system surely is not one of the better ones.
But the Tax Injunction Act was passed for a specific purpose and I very much doubt that the cure, although it may provide a headache, is worse than the disease.
The Court's opinion demonstrates, I think, that the remedy provided by Illinois law qualifies, though perhaps only barely, as "plain, speedy and efficient," within the meaning of the Tax Injunction Act, and that federal jurisdiction to grant injunctive relief is therefore statutorily barred.  Illinois -- and particularly Cook County -- may have little reason to be proud of the system, but it seems to pass muster under the Act.  One might well hope, even though forlornly, that that system and its administration will be improved so that uncomfortable and distressing litigation like this case need not be pursued.
<dissent author="STEVENS" text="TRUE">
DISSENT BY: STEVENS
JUSTICE STEVENS, with whom JUSTICE STEWART, JUSTICE MARSHALL, and JUSTICE POWELL join, dissenting.
In its discussion of the jurisdictional question presented by this case, the Court correctly assumes that the administration of Cook County's system of taxing real property has violated respondent's federal constitutional rights. The question is whether she must be denied equitable relief in a federal court because Illinois affords her "a plain, speedy and efficient remedy."
Year after year Cook County requires respondent to pay a tax that is three times as great as the amount actually due and then, after a 2-year delay, the county refunds the over-assessment without interest.  Because the outcome of this annual ritual is predictable, the taxpayer's remedy is "plain" and because only about 70% of the Nation's litigation is processed more rapidly, the remedy is also "speedy and efficient." That is the consequence of the Court's view that Congress was concerned with nothing more than "minimal procedural criteria" when it enacted the Tax Injunction Act. 1  In my view the substance of the State's remedy must also be considered.  If the substance of the remedy is irrelevant, a computerized calculation accompanied by a preprinted rejection slip would qualify as a "plain, speedy and efficient remedy." Because I am persuaded that a reading of the federal statute that would lead to such an absurd result is manifestly incorrect, and because the Illinois refund remedy cannot fairly be characterized as adequate, I respectfully dissent.
I
If one reads the 1937 Act against its historical background, the conclusion is inescapable that Congress did not intend an inadequate state remedy to oust a federal court of jurisdiction over a taxpayer's constitutional claim.  This Court has often recognized that the statute has its roots in pre-existing equity practice.  Moe v. Salish & Kootenai Tribes, 425 U.S. 463, 470 (1976); Great Lakes Dredge & Dock Co. v. Huffman, 319 U.S. 293, 298 (1943). See also Tully v. Griffin, Inc., 429 U.S. 68, 73 (1976). 2 Both the statutory and the judicial predecessors of the Tax Injunction Act emphasized the substance of the state remedy.  Section 16 of the Judiciary Act of 1789 provided that "suits in equity shall not be sustained in either of the courts of the United States, in any case where plain, adequate and complete remedy may be had at law." 1 Stat. 82.  In 1932, the Court, while recognizing the force of this rule of equity in suits to enjoin the collection of state taxes, nevertheless indicated the importance of the substance of the state remedy:
"The effect of , which was but declaratory of the rule in equity, established long before its adoption, is to emphasize the rule and to forbid in terms recourse to the extraordinary remedies of equity where the right asserted may be fully protected by law.  See Deweese v. Reinhard, 165 U.S. 386, 389; New York Guaranty Co. v. Memphis Water Co., 107 U.S. 205, 214.
"The reason for this guiding principle is of peculiar force in cases where the suit, like the present one, is brought to enjoin the collection of a state tax in courts of a different, though paramount sovereignty.  The scrupulous regard for the rightful independence of state governments which should at all times actuate the federal courts, and a proper reluctance to interfere by injunction with their fiscal operations, require that such relief should be denied in every case where the asserted federal right may be preserved without it.  Whenever the question has been presented, this Court has uniformly held that the mere illegality or unconstitutionality of a state or municipal tax is not in   itself a ground for equitable relief in the courts of the United States.  If the remedy at law is plain, adequate, and complete, the aggrieved party is left to that remedy in the state courts . . . ." Matthews v. Rodgers, 284 U.S. 521, 525. (Emphasis added.) 3
The legislative history of the Tax Injunction Act does not support the notion that Congress intended the Act to alter the standard by eliminating consideration of the substance of the state remedy.  The principal sponsor of the Act, Senator Bone, indicated that the statute assured "a full hearing and judicial determination of the controversy." 81 Cong. Rec. 1416 (1937).  See also S. Rep. No. 1035, 75th Cong., 1st Sess., 2 (1937) (hereinafter 1937 Senate Report).  The terms "full hearing" and "judicial determination" surely imply that the remedy may not be an empty ritual.  Indeed, Senator Bone emphasized that "the bill does not take away any equitable right of a taxpayer, or deprive him of a day in court." 81 Cong. Rec. 1416 (1937).  See also 1937 Senate Report, at 2. 4 The legislative history does not justify the Court's miserly reading of the statute.
The conclusion that the substance of the state remedy must be considered does not rest on the premise that Congress codified intact every "wrinkle" of federal equity practice.  Clearly, Congress intended the Tax Injunction Act to restrict the equity jurisdiction of the federal courts. Specifically, Congress wanted to eliminate the abuse of diversity jurisdiction by foreign corporations which were able to frustrate the state taxing process by obtaining injunctions in federal court. 5 Moreover, as the Court recognizes, ante, at 522, n. 28, the Act was a response to what was perceived as an unwarranted expansion of federal jurisdiction in suits to enjoin state officers that had developed in the wake of Ex parte Young, 209 U.S. 123 (1908). 6 The Tax Injunction Act shifted the focus of the federal courts from a determination of whether the complainant had an adequate remedy at law to a consideration of whether he had a sufficient remedy -- either in equity or at law -- in the state courts. 7 Although Congress thus gave important protection to state tax administration by cutting back federal equity jurisdiction, there is no reason to believe that Congress intended the expansion of the types of remedies that defeat federal jurisdiction to be accompanied by a drastic relaxation of the scrutiny given to those remedies. 8 If Congress did intend such a relaxation, the Tax Injunction Act's roots in equity are shallow indeed.
This Court has consistently employed the equity adequacy standard in construing the Tax Injunction Act. In 1944 -- only seven years after the Act was passed -- the Court stated that the District Court had jurisdiction because of "the uncertainty surrounding the adequacy of the Connecticut remedy." Spector Motor Service, Inc. v. McLaughlin, 323 U.S. 101, 105-106. In 1946, in Hillsborough v. Cromwell, 326 U.S. 620, 625,  the Court held that "uncertainty" as to whether the state remedy "affords full protection to the federal rights" was sufficient to demonstrate that the remedy was not adequate. 9 And recently, in Tully v. Griffin, Inc., 429 U.S., at 74, the Court indicated that to be sufficient under the statute the remedy must permit the taxpayer "to press   its constitutional claims while preserving the right to challenge the amount of the tax due." 10 Thus our cases support the theory that Congress, rather than making an unexplained and drastic change in the traditional equity standard as to adequacy, assumed that the prior standard would apply. 11
This interpretation of the Tax Injunction Act and its history is consistent with the purposes of the Act.  By including the "plain, speedy and efficient" exception to the statutory prohibition of federal equity jurisdiction, Congress indicated its clear intent to preserve federal-court jurisdiction unless some state remedy existed.  If the federal courts are limited by the Tax Injunction Act to a consideration of the procedural mechanics of the state remedy, and are forbidden to consider the substance of such a remedy, then a state remedy which could not possibly afford any relief or which had the potential for only nominal relief would defeat federal jurisdiction. 12 This form-over-substance interpretation renders the exception contained in the Act meaningless, because there would be little purpose in denying a federal remedy to a litigant and sending him to state court to pursue a state remedy -- albeit a quick and certain one -- that provided no relief. 13 A futile state remedy is not significantly different from no remedy at all.  Similarly, an   inadequate state remedy is not analytically different from a state procedure that provides a remedy as to only a portion of the litigant's claims. Such an incomplete remedy will not defeat federal jurisdiction. Georgia Railroad & Banking Co. v. Redwine, 342 U.S. 299, 303 (1952). 14 Therefore, in my   view, if the state remedy does not provide adequate protection to the federal right, a federal remedy continues to be available. 15
II
The inadequacy of the Illinois procedure is much more than a mere failure to pay interest on overassessments. If we take the allegations of the complaint as true, as we must, it is apparent that four factors combine to make the Illinois remedial scheme demonstrably unjust.
First, the tax assessments themselves reveal gross inequities.  Not only was respondent's property admittedly assessed at 3 times its proper assessment value, but other properties in the same class have been assessed at widely divergent rates, ranging from a tiny fraction of actual value to amounts approximately 10 times the true worth. 16 The county's practices apparently give the tax assessor a license to engage in arbitrary and invidious discrimination.
Second, because the overassessment of respondent's property was repeated year after year, notwithstanding her formal protests and the manifest error in the original assessment, it is apparent that the county's procedures do not adequately avoid the risk of repetitive error. 17 The case might well be different if it revealed an isolated mistake affecting only one tax year.  But an evaluation of the State's remedy must involve consideration not only of the fairness of the refund procedure, but also of the taxpayer's ability to prevent the same mistake from being made year after year. 18
Third, although the 2-year period which the county requires to process a refund claim might well be tolerable if its remedy were adequate in all other respects, that time period aggravates each of the other shortcomings. 19 Indeed, like the fourth factor -- the failure to pay interest -- it actually provides the county with an incentive to make overassessments, because the county has the cost-free use of the taxpayer's money while her claim is being processed.
Finally, the failure to pay any interest at all, in combination with the foregoing factors, makes it a virtual certainty that the taxpayer's ultimate recovery will be worth only a fraction of the actual harm caused by the county's wrong.  Cases decided prior to the Tax Injunction Act indicated that state remedies which did not provide for the payment of interest were not sufficient to defeat federal equity jurisdiction. See Educational Films Corp. v. Ward, 282 U.S. 379, 386, n. 2 (1931); Hopkins v. Southern California Telephone Co., 275 U.S. 393 (1928); Nutt v. Ellerbe, 56 F.2d 1058, 1062 (EDSC 1932) (three-judge court); Procter & Gamble Distributing Co. v. Sherman, 2 F.2d 165 (SDNY 1924). See also Lockwood, Maw, & Rosenberry, The Use of the Federal Injunction in Constitutional Litigation, 43 Harv. L. Rev. 426, 435 (1930). 20 Post-Act cases provide support for the contention that a refund must provide interest in order to defeat federal jurisdiction. United States v. Livingston, 179 F.Supp. 9, 15 (EDSC) (three-judge court),  aff'd per curiam, 364 U.S. 281 (1960); United States v. Department of Revenue, 191 F.Supp. 723, 726-727 (ND Ill.), vacated, 368 U.S. 30 (1961). 21
It is not necessary in this case, however, to decide whether the failure to pay interest alone would render a state remedy inadequate. 22 Few remedies fully compensate the victim of official wrongdoing, but surely one would not characterize a remedy that could never exceed one-half or two-thirds of the amount taken as a complete and adequate remedy. Yet if a county may collect 3 to 10 times the amount of tax that a citizen owes and use the excess for two years without paying any interest, the value of that which is ultimately returned is not complete or adequate compensation for the value of what was unjustly taken. 23
The  Court seems to assume that the nonpayment of interest has no effect on the amount of time that will be spent in processing refund claims. 24 In my opinion the Court is quite wrong.  When no interest is paid -- or when the rate of interest on judgments is significantly lower than the prevailing market rate -- the law rewards the dilatory defendant who can postpone the ultimate day of reckoning for as long as possible.  The same powerful market forces are at work when a public body is the defendant.  Whether or not one agrees with the opinion of the Court of Appeals that the payment of interest is an essential ingredient of any adequate refund remedy, it seems perfectly clear that, given the factors disclosed by this record, the remedy afforded by Illinois is indeed inadequate. 25
It follows that federal jurisdiction is not defeated by the Tax Injunction Act and the judgment of the Court of Appeals should therefore be affirmed.
