OPINION
JUSTICE STEVENS delivered the opinion of the Court.
The owner of an economic interest in a mineral deposit is allowed a special deduction from taxable income measured by a percentage of his gross income derived from exhaustion of the mineral. This deduction, codified in §§ 611 and 613 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1954, is designed to compensate such owners for the exhaustion of their interest in a wasting asset, the mineral in place. 1 This case presents the question whether that "percentage depletion" allowance must be denied to otherwise eligible lessees of underground coal because their leases were subject to termination by the lessor on 30 days' notice.
This question arises out of three different tax refund suits that were decided by the Court of Claims in a single opinion.  221 Ct. Cl. 246, 602 F.2d 348. The controlling facts are essentially the same in all three cases.  Each taxpayer operated a coal mine pursuant to a written lease; in exchange for a fixed royalty per ton, the lessor granted the lessee the right to extract coal and to sell it at prices determined by the lessee. Each lease contained a clause permitting the lessor to terminate the lease on 30 days' notice. In fact, however, none of the lessors exercised that right; each lessee mined   a substantial tonnage of coal during an uninterrupted operation that continued for several years.  The proceeds from the sale of the coal represented the only revenue from which the lessees recovered the royalties paid to the lessors.
In each of the cases, certain additional facts help to illuminate the issue.  In the Black Hawk 2 case the lease was to continue "during the term commencing on the first day of March, 1964, and terminating when LESSEE shall have exhausted all of The Feds Creek (or Clintwood) Seam of coal,  . . . or until said tenancy shall be earlier terminated . . . ." App. 77a.  The lease required Black Hawk to pay a royalty of 25 cents per ton of coal or $ 5,000 per year, whichever was larger.  Id., at 77a-78a.  In addition, the lease required Black Hawk to pay all taxes on the underground coal, as well as the taxes on its plant and equipment and on mined coal. Id., at 79a.  Black Hawk paid independent contractors a fixed price per ton to remove the coal, and Black Hawk was free to sell the coal to any party at whatever price it could obtain.  Black Hawk mined the seam to exhaustion, operating continuously under the lease for 13 years.  Id ., at 70a-71a.  The Government stipulated that Black Hawk was the sole claimant to the percentage depletion deduction; no claim had been made by the lessor or by any independent mining contractor employed by Black Hawk.  Id., at 71a.
The Swank case involves two separate leases executed by Swank and Northumberland County, Pa., pursuant to which Swank operated mines on land owned by the county. The first lease, a deep-mining lease executed in 1964, was terminated in 1968 after a mountain slide forced Swank to close the mine.  Id., at 52a.  The second, a strip-mining lease executed in 1966, was still being operated by Swank's successor in interest in 1977 when the case was tried.  During the tax years in dispute, Swank's royalty payments to the county at the rate of 35 cents per ton amounted to $ 7,545.10 in 1966 and $ 6,854.05 in 1967.  Id., at 53a. The deduction for depletion, which was based on the gross income received from the sale of the coal, was significantly larger. 3 The record also indicates that Swank invested significant sums in the construction of access roads, the acquisition of equipment, and the purchase and improvement of a "tipple" -- the surface structure that is used to remove slate and rock from the mined product and to sort the coal into specific sizes for marketing.  Id., at 55a-56a.
The Bull Run 4 case involves a 5-year lease executed in 1967 and renewed in 1972.  Id., at 90a-91a.  Unlike the leases in the other cases, it gave the lessor a right of first purchase if it was willing to meet the lessee's price, and in the tax year in dispute the lessor did purchase all of the coal mined by Bull Run.  221 Ct. Cl., at 249, n. 4, 602 F.2d, at 350, n. 4. The lease did not, however, limit the lessee's right to set selling prices or to sell to others who were willing to pay more than the lessor. Ibid.  Like the lease in Black Hawk, the lease provided for a royalty of 25 cents per ton. App. 91a.  As is also true in both Black Hawk and Swank, there is no suggestion that any other party has made any claim to any part of the percentage depletion allowance at issue in this case. 5 See id., at 92a.  The Bull Run lease, like the others, contained a provision giving the lessor the right to cancel on 30 days' written notice. 6
I
Since 1913 the Internal Revenue Code or its predecessors have provided special deductions for depletion of wasting assets.  We have explained these deductions as resting "on the theory that the extraction of minerals gradually exhausts the capital investment in the mineral deposit," and therefore the depletion allowance permits "a recoupment of the owner's capital investment in the minerals so that when the minerals are exhausted, the owner's capital is unimpaired." Commissioner v. Southwest Exploration Co., 350 U.S. 308, 312.7 The percentage depletion allowance, however, is clearly more than a method of enabling the operator of a coal mine to recover the amount he has paid for the unmined coal. Because the deduction is computed as a percentage of his gross income from the mining operation and is not computed with reference to the operator's investment, it provides a special incentive for engaging in this line of business that goes well beyond a purpose of merely allowing the owner of a wasting asset to recoup the capital invested in that asset. 8 As the Court said in Southwest Exploration Co., supra:
"The present allowance, however, bears little relationship  to the capital investment, and the taxpayer is not limited to a recoupment on his original investment.  The allowance continues so long as minerals are extracted, and even though no money was actually invested in the deposit. The depletion allowance in the Internal Revenue Code of 1939  is solely a matter of congressional grace . . . ." 350 U.S., at 312. 9
Hence eligibility for the deduction is determined not by the amount of the capital investment but by the mine operator's "economic interest" in the coal. 10
A recognition that the percentage depletion allowance is more than merely a recovery of the cost of the unmined coal is especially significant in this case. The question here is whether a deduction for the asset depleted by respondents will be received by anyone. 11 The tax consequences of the lessors' receipt of royalties will not be affected, either favorably   or unfavorably, by our decision in this case. 12 The Government therefore is not contending that the wrong party is claiming the percentage depletion allowance. Rather, the Government takes the position that no such deduction shall be allowed to any party if the legal interest of the lessee-operator is subject to cancellation on short notice. 13
II
The language of the controlling statute makes no reference to the minimum duration of the interest in mineral deposits on which a taxpayer may base his claim to percentage depletion. 14 The relevant Treasury Regulation merely requires the taxpayer to have an "economic interest" in the unmined coal. 15 That term is broadly defined by regulation as follows:
"(b) Economic interest.  (1) Annual depletion deductions are allowed only to the owner of an economic interest in mineral deposits or standing timber.  An economic interest is possessed in every case in which the taxpayer has acquired by investment any interest in mineral in place or standing timber and secures, by any form of legal relationship, income derived from the extraction of the mineral or severance of the timber, to which he must look for a return of his capital." 16
The Government's argument that the termination clause deprived the lessees of an economic interest is advanced in two forms.  First, the Government notes that the regulation distinguishes a mere "economic advantage" 17 from a depletable "economic interest," and argues that two cases -- Parsons v. Smith, 359 U.S. 215 , and Paragon Jewel Coal Co. v. Commissioner, 380 U.S. 624 -- in which the Court concluded that mining contractors had only an "economic advantage" rather than an "economic interest" in coal deposits -- support the conclusion that these lessees also had a mere "economic advantage." Second, the Government argues as a matter of "practical economics" that the right to terminate gives the lessor the only significant economic interest in the coal. Neither submission is persuasive.
The Parsons opinion covered two consolidated cases with similar facts.  In each the owner of coal-bearing land entered into a contract with the taxpayer providing that the taxpayer would strip-mine the coal and deliver it to the owner for a fixed price per ton. Neither of the contracts purported to give the mining contractor any interest in the coal, either before or after it was mined, or any right to sell it to third parties.  See 359 U.S., at 216-219. The contracts were terminable on short notice and terminability was one of the seven factors the Court listed to support its conclusion that the independent contractors did not have an economic interest in the coal. 18 It is perfectly clear, however, that the Court would have reached the same conclusion if that factor had not been present.
The facts in the Paragon Jewel case were much like those in Parsons, except that the mining contractors dealt with lessees instead of the owners of the underground coal. As in Parsons, the contractors agreed to mine the coal at their own expense and deliver it to Paragon's tipple at a fixed fee per ton. 19 The contractors had no control over the coal after delivery to Paragon, had no responsibility for its sale or in fixing its price, and did not even know the price at which Paragon sold the coal. 380 U.S., at 628. The Court stated that the Commissioner took the position that
"only a taxpayer with a legally enforceable right to share in the value of a mineral deposit has a depletable capital or economic interest in that deposit and the contract miners in this case had no such interest in the unmined coal." Id., at 627.
The Court agreed that the miners did not have an economic interest in the coal:
"Here, Paragon was bound to pay the posted fee regardless of the condition of the market at the time of the particular delivery and thus the contract miners did not look to the sale of the coal for a return of their investment, but looked solely to Paragon to abide by its covenant." Id., at 635.
Thus in Paragon Jewel Coal Co., as in Parsons, the terminability of the agreements was not the dispositive factor, 20 and neither case answers the narrow question before us in this case. 21
The contrast between the interest of the contractors in Parsons and Paragon Jewel and the lessees in these cases is stark.  Whereas those contractors never acquired any legal interest in the coal, the lessees in these cases had a legal interest in the mineral both before and after it was mined, and were free to sell the coal at whatever price the market could bear.  Indeed, the Government does not contend that, absent the termination clauses, the lessees would not have had an economic interest in the coal. In contrast, it seems clear that the contract miners' interest in the Parsons and Paragon Jewel cases would have been insufficient even if their agreements had been for a fixed term.
The Government, however, does argue that the lessors' right to terminate the leases alone made the taxpayers' interest so tenuous as to defeat a claim to the percentage depletion deduction. 22 According to the Government, as a matter of "practical economics" an increase in the price of the minerals will "assuredly" lead to an exercise of the lessors' right to terminate; accordingly, the only significant economic interest is controlled by the lessor. We find this theoretical argument unpersuasive for at least three reasons.
First, the royalty rate is a relatively small element of the mine operator's total cost. 23 Therefore, even if the price of coal increases, the lessor cannot be certain that he will be able to negotiate a more favorable lease with another lessee. Moreover, the quantity of coal extracted by the operator each year may be as important in providing royalties for the lessor as the rate per ton. Purely as a theoretical matter, it therefore is by no means certain that an increase in the price of coal will induce a lessor to terminate a satisfactory business relationship.  Indeed, the only evidence in the record -- the history of three different operations that were uninterrupted for many years -- tends to belie the Government's entire argument. 24
Second, from the standpoint of the taxpayer who did in fact conduct a prolonged and continuous operation, it would seem rather unfair to deny him a tax benefit that is available to his competitors simply because he accepted a business risk -- the risk of termination -- that his competitors were able to avoid when they negotiated their mining leases. It is unlikely that Congress intended to limit the availability of the percentage depletion deduction to the mining operations with the greatest bargaining power.
Third, and most important, the Government has not suggested any rational basis for linking the right to a depletion deduction to the period of time that the taxpayer operates a mine.  If the authorization of a special tax benefit for mining a seam of coal to exhaustion is sound policy, that policy would seem equally sound whether the entire operation is conducted by one taxpayer over a prolonged period or by a series of taxpayers operating for successive shorter periods.  The Government has suggested no reason why the efficient removal of a great quantity of coal in less than 30 days should have different tax consequences than the slower removal of the  same quantity over a prolonged period. 25
The Court of Claims correctly concluded that the mere existence of the lessors' unexercised right to terminate these leases did not destroy the taxpayers' economic interest in the leased mineral deposits.
The judgment is
Affirmed.
<dissent author="WHITE_B" text="TRUE">
DISSENT BY: WHITE
JUSTICE WHITE, with whom JUSTICE STEWART joins, dissenting.
The Court today rejects the Internal Revenue Service's interpretation of §§ 611 and 613 and the applicable regulation because it has not "suggested any rational basis for linking the right to a depletion deduction to the period of time that the taxpayer operates a mine." Ante, at 585.  The Court suggests that depletion tax policy should be the same "whether the entire operation is conducted by one taxpayer over a prolonged period or by a series of taxpayers operating for successive shorter periods." Ibid.  My disagreement with the Court's opinion is simple.  It is not our function to speculate on who deserves an allowance; our duty is to determine if the Service's interpretation is a reasonable one.  Since in my view the construction of the statutory provisions and the attendant regulation is clearly acceptable, I dissent.
Congress has provided for a depletion allowance in recognition of the fact that mineral deposits are wasting assets, in order to compensate "the owner for the part used up in production." Helvering v. Bankline Oil Co., 303 U.S. 362, 366 (1938). The theoretical justification for the allowance is that it will permit an owner to recoup his capital investment in the minerals as the resources are being exhausted.  Commissioner v. Southwest Exploration Co., 350 U.S. 308, 312 (1956); United States v. Cannelton Sewer Pipe Co., 364 U.S. 76, 81 (1960).  The fact that the manner of calculating the depletion allowance has changed and is not that closely tied to the underlying justification of recouping a party's capital investment is immaterial since the method of calculating the deduction is a matter of convenience and "in no way  the fundamental theory of the allowance." Bankline Oil, supra, at 367. In essence, therefore, any "right" to a depletion allowance under the statute is properly predicated on some indication of capital investment in the minerals in place.
From the earliest cases dealing with the statutory predecessors of § 611 and § 613, this Court has recognized the "capital investment" theory underlying the depletion allowance. In Palmer v. Bender, 287 U.S. 551, 557 (1933), the Court stated:
"The language of the statute is broad enough to provide, at least,   for every case in which the taxpayer has acquired, by investment, any interest in the oil in place, and secures, by any form of legal relationship, income derived from the extraction of the oil, to which he must look for a return of his capital." (Emphasis supplied.)
Other cases have expressed the capital investment theory in somewhat different terms by noting that there exists a critical distinction between possessing an economic interest in the minerals in place, which entitles a party to the depletion allowance, and possessing a mere economic advantage, which does not entitle one to the allowance. See Bankline Oil, supra, at 367 ("'economic interest' is not to be taken as embracing a mere economic advantage derived from production, through a contractual relation to the owner, by one who has no capital investment in the mineral deposit"); Kirby Petroleum Co. v. Commissioner , 326 U.S. 599, 603 (1946).
It is true, as recognized by the Court, that the statute does not specifically refer to a minimum duration of a leasehold to qualify a lessee to an allowance. But it is also true that the Service has promulgated a regulation which has fully adopted the "economic advantage-interest" distinction noted in the Court's earlier opinions:
"(b) Economic interest. (1) Annual depletion deductions are allowed only to the owner of an economic interest in mineral deposits or standing timber.  An economic interest is possessed in every case in which the taxpayer has acquired by investment any interest in mineral in place or standing timber and secures, by any form of legal relationship, income derived from the extraction of the mineral or severance of the timber, to which he must look for a return of his capital. . . .  A person who has no capital investment in the mineral deposit . . . does not possess an economic interest merely because through a contractual relation he possesses a mere economic or pecuniary advantage derived from production.  For example, an agreement between the owner of an economic interest and another entitling the latter to purchase or process the product upon production or entitling the latter to compensation for extraction or cutting does not convey a depletable economic interest. . . ." Treas. Reg. § 1.611-1 (b), 26 CFR § 1.611-1 (b) (1980) (emphasis supplied).
Under the Court's prior cases, the regulation's explicit acceptance of the economic-interest standard is proper and must be afforded substantial weight by a reviewing court.  A regulation adopted pursuant to a statute must be given effect if there is a reasonable basis for the interpretation given by the Commissioner.  See Fulman v. United States, 434 U.S. 528, 533 (1978); Bingler v. Johnson, 394 U.S. 741, 749-750 (1969); Commissioner v. South Texas Lumber Co., 333 U.S. 496, 501 (1948). Here, imposing an economic-interest requirement for any entitlement to a depletion allowance is clearly reasonable given that our prior cases have indicated that the statute encompassed such a requirement. Indeed, earlier versions of the same regulation have been expressly accepted and applied by the Court.  See, e. g., Paragon Jewel Coal Co. v. Commissioner, 380 U.S. 624, 632 (1965).
Furthermore, although the term "economic interest" is not self-defining, the Service has the authority and the responsibility to interpret and apply the economic-interest standard contained in its own regulation. It has done so through various interpretative decisions and has concluded in the exercise of its expertise that the duration of the leasehold interest is a critical factor in determining a lessee's right to a depletion allowance under the statute. 1 A coal mining company's interest  in the coal lands may run from a straightforward fee simple ownership to a variety of lesser interests down to a nonexclusive right to extract coal as a tenant at will.  The Service is of the view that a taxpayer operating pursuant to a lease must be assured of a right to continue mining for a reasonably long period of time.  Accordingly, the Service believes that a lease which is revocable on short notice does not create a sufficient economic interest to justify the taking of a depletion allowance.
The Service's interpretation of its own regulation is entitled to deference. See Ford Motor Credit Co. v. Milhollin, 444 U.S. 555, 566 (1980) (" agency's construction of its own regulations has been regarded as especially due "); Bowles v. Seminole Rock & Sand Co., 325 U.S. 410, 413-414 (1945) (courts must look to "administrative construction of the regulation if the meaning of the words used is in doubt" and give it "controlling weight unless it is plainly erroneous or inconsistent with the regulation").  See also Fribourg Navigation Co. v. Commissioner, 383 U.S. 272, 300 (1966) (WHITE, J., dissenting) (given that Congress gave to "the Secretary of the Treasury or his delegate, not to this Court, the primary responsibility of determining what constitutes a 'reasonable' allowance for depreciation," courts should affirm the Commissioner's position when he "adopts a rational position that is consistent with the purpose behind the depreciation deduction, congressional intent, and the language of the statute and interpretative Treasury Regulations").  Of course, Revenue Rulings and other interpretative documents do not have the same force as Treasury Regulations. But this fact does not mean that the consistent interpretation of the Service may be disregarded because the Court feels another interpretation is more reasonable, especially in cases like the present where the interpretation involves the application of terms expressly used in the regulation. Indeed, in National Muffler Dealers Assn. v. United States, 440 U.S. 472 (1979), the Court afforded substantial deference to the Service's interpretation of a phrase in a regulation. Under the relevant regulation, certain tax advantages were made dependent on whether a particular activity was in a "line of business." Like the "economic interest" concept involved in this case, the meaning of "line of business" was open to different interpretations.  The Commissioner, as expressed in a variety of Revenue Rulings, see id., at 483-484, had defined "line of business" in a narrow fashion.  The Court upheld the administrative interpretation of the "line of business" concept, and stated:
"In short, while the Commissioner's reading of § 501 (c)(6) perhaps is not the only possible one, it does bear a fair relationship to the language of the statute, it reflects the views of those who sought its enactment, and it matches the purpose they articulated.  It evolved as the Commissioner administered the statute and attempted to give to a new phrase a content that would reflect congressional design.  The regulation has stood for 50 years, and the Commissioner infrequently but consistently has interpreted it to exclude an organization like the Association that is not industrywide.  The Commissioner's view therefore merits serious deference." Id., at 484 (emphasis supplied).
In my view, the posture of the present case is identical to that of National Muffler.  Here, the acknowledged standard of an economic interest contained in the regulation has been interpreted by the Service to require a lessee to possess a lease which is not terminable at will on short notice. This consistent interpretation of the applicable regulation is entitled to deference, which the Court today chooses not to give it.  It is also significant to note that this interpretation has also been accepted and applied by the majority of the lower courts that have considered the question. 2
The Service's concern with the nature of the underlying lease in determining whether an economic interest exists is also reasonable in light of our prior cases.  In this regard, Parsons v. Smith, 359 U.S. 215 (1959), and Paragon Jewel Coal Co. v. Commissioner, 380 U.S. 624 (1965) , provide two examples suggesting that the duration of a leasehold interest is an important factor in determining whether an economic interest exists.  In Parsons, the Court noted that the interest asserted by the mining contractors rested entirely on the contracts.  The Court found that the mining contracts did not entitle them to a depletion allowance since the contracts "were completely terminable without cause on short notice." 359 U.S., at 224. In Paragon Jewel, a lessee made agreements with various companies to mine the coal. The agreements were silent regarding termination and were apparently for an indefinite period. The contractors were under no obligation to mine any specific amount of coal and were not given the right to mine any area to exhaustion. The Court held that the mining companies had no right to receive a depletion allowance.
None of the reasons forwarded by the Court for rejecting the Service's view is persuasive.  The fact that respondents did in fact mine to exhaustion is irrelevant to a determination of the legal rights underlying the leasehold. Indeed, the right to mine to exhaustion, without anything more, "does not constitute an economic interest under Parsons, but is 'a mere economic advantage derived from production, through a contractual relation to the owner, by one who has no capital investment in the mineral deposit.'" Paragon Jewel, supra, at 634-635 (quoting Bankline Oil, 303 U.S., at 367). Both Paragon Jewel and Parsons also make clear that the fact of coal mining itself, regardless how great the cost of the equipment or structures required to mine the coal, is irrelevant to the determination whether a mining company is entitled to a depletion allowance. The costs of mining, like the costs of doing any business, are deductible as business expenses or are depreciable expenses under other parts of the Code, and do not themselves serve to create an economic interest in the minerals in place.  Paragon Jewel, supra, at 630-631; Parsons, supra, at 224-225. 3
In essence, the Court argues that because respondents own the coal and sell it on the open market, they must have an interest in the mineral in place.  Accordingly, so the argument goes, they are entitled to a depletion allowance because they were "at risk" with respect to the market.  To be sure, neither Parsons nor Paragon Jewel involved a situation where the mining concern sold in the open market.  But obviously, if the relationship to the market was the sole factor of importance, then the opinions in those two cases could have been drastically simplified.  The Court could have stated that the marketing system, in and of itself, was such as to preclude the taking of the depletion allowance. This the Court did not do, and I find it peculiar that the Court today chooses to rewrite those cases in light of what it determines to be the more important factor.  Indeed, the Court's focus on the marketing scheme for determining whether a depletion allowance should be permitted is far less sensible than the Service's duration-of-the-lease requirement.  Market conditions may change, and drastic changes could predictably result in the leases being  cancelled.  A company with an assured right to mine the coal for a term is not at the mercy of the lessor. Respondents had no such right and their reliance on the market for economic return on their investment is therefore illusory since it is dependent on the lessor's willingness to permit continued extraction of the coal. The fact that in these particular cases this did not happen is beside the point.  What matters is that respondents had absolutely no legal right to mine coal beyond the 30-day period provided in the leases. In this light, the Service was well within bounds in concluding that they had not demonstrated an economic interest in the mineral in place.
Of course, the question of what constitutes an economic interest is susceptible to differing interpretations.  A 1-day lease would clearly not give the mining company any reasonable expectation of economic interest in the minerals in place.  Perhaps equally clear is the fact that such an economic interest   would be created by a long-term lease where the lessee has a guaranteed right to mine an area to exhaustion. In the grey area in between, reasonable minds could differ on the nature of the interests possessed.  In my mind, the Service has reasonably interpreted the acknowledged and accepted distinction between economic interest and economic advantage by focusing on the duration of the leasehold interest.  In applying the economic-interest requirement, the Service has reasonably insisted upon some enforceable expectation of continuity in mining rights.  It may well be that the Service could have concluded otherwise in the present cases.  The point, however, is that the Service believes that a lease which is terminable on 30 days' notice without cause is not long enough to create an economic interest. Because I believe that the Service's long-held view, accepted by most lower courts, can hardly be considered to be irrational, I dissent from the Court's opinion which is nothing more than a substitution of what it deems meet and proper for the wholly reasonable views of the Internal Revenue Service as to the meaning of its own regulation and of the statutory provisions.  It is also plain enough to see that with the owner recovering his investment tax-free, allowing depletion to these respondents with no more than an ephemeral interest in the coal is precisely the kind of an unjustified deduction, an undeserved windfall, that we should not require contrary to the informed views of the Service.
