OPINION
JUSTICE STEVENS delivered the opinion of the Court.
The question presented is whether a decision by the city of Memphis to close the north end of West Drive, a street that traverses a white residential community, violated § 1 of the Civil Rights Act of 1866, Rev. Stat. § 1978, 42 U. S. C. § 1982, or the Thirteenth Amendment to the United States Constitution. 1 The city's action was challenged by respondents, who resided in a predominantly black area to the north.  The Court of Appeals ultimately held the street closing invalid because it adversely affected respondents' ability to hold and enjoy their property.  610 F.2d 395. We reverse because the record does not support that holding.
I
Most of the relevant facts concerning the geography, the decision to close the street, and the course of the litigation are not in dispute.  The inferences to be drawn from the evidence, however, are subject to some disagreement.
A. Geography
Hein Park, a small residential community in Memphis, Tenn., is bounded on three sides by thoroughfares and on the west by the campus of Southwestern University. West Drive is a two-lane street about a half mile long passing through the center of Hein Park.  Its southern terminus is a short distance from an entrance to Overton Park, a large recreation area containing, among other facilities, the municipal zoo. 2 Its northern terminus is at the intersection of Jackson Ave. and Springdale St., two heavily traveled four-lane avenues.  West Drive is one of three streets that enter Hein Park from the north; two streets enter from the east.
The closing will have some effect on both through traffic and local traffic. Prior to the closing, a significant volume of traffic southbound on Springdale St. would continue south on West Drive and then -- because of the location of Overton Park to the south of Hein Park -- make either a right or a left turn to the next through street a few blocks away, before resuming the southerly route to the center of the city.  The closing of West Drive will force this traffic to divert to the east or west before entering Hein Park, instead of when it leaves, but the closing will not make the entire route any longer.  With respect to local traffic, the street closing will add some distance to the trip from Springdale St. to the entrance to Overton Park and will make access to some homes in Hein Park slightly less convenient.
The area to the north of Hein Park is predominantly black.  All of the homes in Hein Park were owned by whites when the decision to close the street was made.
B. City Approval
In 1970, residents of Hein Park requested the city to close four streets leading into the subdivision.  After receiving objections from the police, fire, and sanitation departments,  the city denied the request. 3 In its report regarding the application, the city's Traffic Engineering Department noted that much of the traffic through the subdivision could be eliminated by closing West Drive at Jackson Ave.  Trial Exhibit 14.  Thereafter, on July 9, 1973, members of the Hein Park Civic Association filed with the Memphis and Shelby County Planning Commission a formal "Application to Close Streets or Alleys" seeking permission to close West Drive for 25 feet south of Jackson Ave. See Trial Exhibit 13, App. 135.  The application was signed by the two property owners abutting both Jackson Ave. and West Drive and all but one of the other West Drive homeowners on the block immediately south of Jackson Ave.  Ibid. 4 The stated reasons for the closing were:
"(1) Reduce flow of through traffic using subdivision streets.
"(2) Increase safety to the many children who live in the subdivision and those who use the subdivision to walk to Snowden Junior High School.
"(3) Reduce 'traffic pollution' in a residential area, e. g., noise, litter, interruption of community living." Ibid.
After receiving the views of interested municipal departments, the County Planning Commission on November 1, 1973, recommended that the application be approved with the conditions that the applicants provide either an easement for existing and future utility company facilities or the funds to relocate existing facilities and that the closure provide clearance for fire department vehicles.  Trial Exhibit 4, App. 130.  The City Council held a hearing at which both proponents and opponents of the proposal presented their views, and the Council adopted a resolution authorizing the closing   subject to the conditions recommended by the Planning Commission.  See Trial Exhibit 26.  The city reconsidered its action and held additional hearings on later dates but never rescinded its resolution. 5 See Trial Exhibits 27-30, 41.
C. Litigation
In a complaint filed against the city and various officials in the United States District Court for the Western District of Tennessee on April 1, 1974, three individuals and two civic associations, suing on behalf of a class of residents north of Jackson Ave. and west of Springdale St., alleged that the closing was unconstitutional and prayed for an injunction requiring the city to keep West Drive open for through traffic. 6 The District Court granted a motion to dismiss, holding that the complaint, as amended, failed to allege any injury to the plaintiffs' own property or any disparate racial effect, 7 and   that they had no standing as affected property owners to raise procedural objections to the city's action. 8
The United States Court of Appeals for the Sixth Circuit reversed.  The court first noted that "a complaint should not be dismissed for failure to state a claim unless it appears beyond doubt that the plaintiff can prove no set of facts in support of his claim which will entitle him to relief." 535 F.2d 976, 978. The court concluded that respondents' complaint, fairly construed, alleged that the city had conferred certain benefits -- "to wit, the privacy and quiet of an exclusive dead-end street" -- on white residents that it refused to confer on similarly situated black residents. Ibid.  Accordingly, the court held that if respondents could prove that city officials conferred the benefit of a closed street on West Drive residents "because of their color," respondents would have a valid claim under either 42 U. S. C. § 1982 or § 1983.  535 F.2d, at 979. 9
Following the remand, the case was transferred to Judge McRae for trial.  Respondents amended their pleadings and, in pretrial discovery, reviewed all street closings in Memphis during the prior 10-year period as well as the entire record concerning the closing of West Drive. An elaborate pretrial order entered on February 9, 1978, identified three contested issues of fact:
"(a) Whether the defendants, by closing West Drive, have conferred certain benefits on white residents of West Drive that they have refused to confer on similarly situated black neighborhoods because of their color.
"(b) Whether a discriminatory purpose was a motivating factor in the decision of the City Council to close West Drive.
"(c) Whether the defendants and their agents complied with the normal procedural sequence in processing the application to close a portion of West Drive. If not, the extent to which they failed to comply." App. 87.
After a full trial Judge McRae filed a detailed memorandum decision in which he found against the respondents on each of the three contested issues of fact.  He specifically concluded that the action of the City Council closing West Drive "did not create a benefit for white citizens which has been denied black citizens"; 10 that racially discriminatory intent or purpose had not been proved; 11 and that the city had not departed significantly from normal procedures in authorizing the closing. 12 Accordingly, the District Court entered judgment for the city.
The Court of Appeals did not reject any of the District Court's findings of fact.  The Court of Appeals did hold, however, that Judge McRae had erred by limiting his focus to the issue of whether the city had granted a street closing application made by whites while denying comparable benefits to blacks.  610 F.2d, at 400-401. Although the Court of Appeals recognized that the reasoning of its earlier opinion could have induced such a narrow focus,   and that the record supported Judge McRae's findings on this issue, the court held that the respondents need not show that the city had denied street-closing applications submitted by black neighborhoods to show a violation of § 1982.  610 F.2d, at 400-402. Rather, the court held that respondents could demonstrate that this particular street closing was a "badge of slavery" under § 1982 and the Thirteenth Amendment without reference to the equal treatment issue. 13
The Court of Appeals recognized that a street closing may be a legitimate and effective means of preserving the residential character of a neighborhood and protecting it from the problems caused by excessive traffic. 610 F.2d, at 402. The Court of Appeals concluded, however, that relief under § 1982 was required here by the facts: (1) that the closing would benefit a white neighborhood and adversely affect blacks; (2) that a "barrier was to be erected precisely at the point of separation of these neighborhoods and would undoubtedly have the effect of limiting contact between them"; (3) that the closing was not part of a citywide plan but rather was a "unique step to protect one neighborhood from outside influences which the residents considered to be 'undesirable'"; and (4) that there was evidence of "an economic depreciation in the property values in the predominantly black residential area." 14 Before addressing the legal issues, we consider the extent to which each of these conclusions is supported by the record and the District Court's findings.
D. The Evidence
The first of the four factual predicates for the Court of Appeals' holding relates to the effect of the closing on black residents and is squarely rooted in the District Court's findings.  Judge McRae expressly found that the City Council action "will have disproportionate impact on certain black citizens." App. 161.  He described the traffic that will be diverted by the closing as "overwhelming black," ibid., and noted that the white residents of West Drive will have less inconvenience. 15 We must note, however, that although neither Judge McRae nor the Court of Appeals focused on the extent of the inconvenience to residents living north of Jackson Ave., the record makes it clear that such inconvenience will be minimal.  A motorist southbound on Springdale St. could continue south on West Drive for only a half mile before the end of West Drive at Overton Park would necessitate a turn. 16 Thus unless the motorist is going to Overton Park, the only effect of the street closing for traffic proceeding south will be to require a turn sooner without lengthening the entire trip or requiring any more turns. 17 Moreover,  even the motorist going to Overton Park had to make a turn from West Drive and a short drive down North Parkway to reach the entrance to the park.  The entire trip from Springdale St. to the park will be slightly longer with West Drive closed, but it will not be significantly less convenient. 18 Thus although it is correct that the motorists who will be inconvenienced by the closing are primarily black, the extent of the inconvenience is not great.
As for the Court of Appeals' second point, the court attached greater significance to the closing as a "barrier" between two neighborhoods than appears warranted by the record.  The physical barrier is a curb that will not impede the passage of municipal vehicles. 19 Moreover, because only one of the several streets entering Hein Park is closed to vehicular traffic, the other streets will provide ample access to the residences in Hein Park. 20 The diversion of through traffic around the Hein Park residential area affects the diverted motorists, but does not support the suggestion that such diversion will limit the social or commercial contact between residents of neighboring communities. 21
The Court of Appeals' reference to protecting the neighborhood from "undesirable" outside influences may be read as suggesting that the court viewed the closure as motivated by the racial attitude of the residents of Hein Park.  The District Court's findings do not support that view of the record.  Judge McRae expressly discounted the racial composition of the traffic on West Drive in evaluating its undesirable character; he noted that "excessive traffic in any residential neighborhood has public welfare factors such as safety, noise, and litter, regardless of the race of the traffic and the neighborhood." App. 161.  The transcript of the City Council hearings indicates that the residents of West Drive perceived the traffic to be a problem because of the number and speed of the cars traveling down West Drive. 22 Even if the statements of the residents of West Drive are discounted as self-serving, there is no evidence that the closing was motivated by any racially exclusionary desire. 23 The City Council members who favored the closing expressed concerns similar to those of the West Drive residents. 24 Those who   opposed the resolution did so because they believed that a less drastic response to the traffic problems would be adequate and that the closing would create a dangerous precedent. 25 The one witness at trial who testified that "someone" soliciting signatures for a petition favoring the closure had described the traffic on West Drive as "undesirable traffic," stated that the solicitor mentioned excess traffic and danger to children as reasons for signing. 26 Unlike the Court of Appeals, we therefore believe that the "undesirable" character of the traffic flow must be viewed as a factor supporting, rather than undermining, the validity of the closure decision.  To the extent that the Court of Appeals' opinion can be read as making a finding of discriminatory intent, the record requires us to reject that finding in favor of the District Court's contrary conclusion.  Judge McRae expressly found that the respondents had not proved that the City Council had acted with discriminatory intent. App. 161. 27
Finally, the Court of Appeals was not justified in inferring that the closure would cause "an economic depreciation in the property values in the predominantly black residential area . . . ." 610 F.2d, at 404. The only expert testimony credited by the District Court on that issue was provided by a real estate broker called by the plaintiffs. 28 His expert   opinion, as summarized by the District Court, was that "there would not be a decrease in value experienced by property owners located to the north of West Drive because of the closure." App. 155.  After the witness had expressed that opinion, he admittedly speculated that some property owners to the north might be envious of the better housing that they could not afford and therefore might be less attentive to the upkeep of their own property, which in turn "could have a detrimental effect on the property values in the future." 29   In our opinion the District Court correctly refused to find an   adverse impact on black property values based on that speculation. 30
In summary, then, the critical facts established by the record are these: The city's decision to close West Drive was motivated by its interest in protecting the safety and tranquility of a residential neighborhood. The procedures followed in making the decision were fair and were not affected by any racial or other impermissible factors.  The city has conferred a benefit on certain white property owners but there is no reason to believe that it would refuse to confer a comparable benefit on black property owners.  The closing has not affected the value of property owned by black citizens, but it has caused some slight inconvenience to black motorists.
II
Under the Court's recent decisions in Washington v. Davis, 426 U.S. 229, and Arlington Heights v. Metropolitan Housing Dev. Corp., 429 U.S. 252,  the absence of proof of discriminatory intent forecloses any claim that the official action challenged in this case violates the Equal Protection Clause of the Fourteenth Amendment.  Petitioners ask us to hold that respondents' claims under § 1982 and the Thirteenth Amendment are likewise barred by the absence of proof of discriminatory purpose.  We note initially that the coverage of both   § 1982 and the Thirteenth Amendment is significantly different from the coverage of the Fourteenth Amendment.  The prohibitions of the latter apply only to official action, or, as implemented by 42 U. S. C. § 1983 (1976 ed., Supp. III), to action taken under color of state law.  We have squarely decided, however, that § 1982 is directly applicable to private parties, Jones v. Alfred H. Mayer Co., 392 U.S. 409; cf.  Runyon v. McCrary, 427 U.S. 160, 170-174; and it has long been settled that the Thirteenth Amendment "is not a mere prohibition of State laws establishing or upholding slavery, but an absolute declaration that slavery or involuntary servitude shall not exist in any part of the United States." Civil Rights Cases, 109 U.S. 3, 20. Thus, although respondents challenge official action in this case, the provisions of the law on which the challenge is based cover certain private action as well.  Rather than confront prematurely the rather general question whether either § 1982 or the Thirteenth Amendment requires proof of a specific unlawful purpose, we first consider the extent to which either provision applies at all to this street closing case.  We of course deal first with the statutory question.
III
Section 1982 provides:
"All citizens of the United States shall have the same right, in every State and Territory, as is enjoyed by white citizens thereof to inherit,   purchase, lease, sell, hold, and convey real and personal property."
To effectuate the remedial purposes of the statute, the Court has broadly construed this language to protect not merely the enforceability of property interests acquired by black citizens but also their right to acquire and use property on an equal basis with white citizens.  Thus, in Hurd v. Hodge, 334 U.S. 24, the Court refused to permit enforcement of private covenants imposing racial restrictions on the sale of property even though the legal rights of blacks to purchase or to sell other property were unimpaired. 31 In Jones, supra, we held that § 1982 "must encompass every racially motivated refusal to sell or rent." 392 U.S., at 421-422. 32 In Sullivan v. Little Hunting Park, Inc., 396 U.S. 229, we interpreted the term "lease" in § 1982 to include an assignable membership share in recreational facilities. 33 In Tillman v. Wheaton-Haven Recreation Assn., Inc., 410 U.S. 431, we extended that holding to cover a preference to purchase a nontransferable swim club membership. 34 Although these cases broadly defined the property rights protected by § 1982, our cases, like the statutory language itself, all concerned the right of black persons to hold and acquire property on an equal basis with white persons and the right of blacks not to have property interests impaired because of their race. 35
Therefore, as applied to this case, the threshold inquiry under § 1982 must focus on the relationship between the street closing and the property interests of the respondents.  As the Court of Appeals correctly noted in its first opinion, the statute would support a challenge to municipal action benefiting white property owners that would be refused to similarly situated black property owners.  For official action of that kind would prevent blacks from exercising the same property rights as whites.  But respondents' evidence failed to support this legal theory. Alternatively, as the Court of Appeals held in its second opinion, the statute might be violated by official action that depreciated the value of property owned by black citizens.  But this record discloses no effect on the value of property owned by any member of the respondent class.  Finally, the statute might be violated if the street closing severely restricted access to black homes, because blacks would then be hampered in the use of their property. Again,  the record discloses no such restriction. 36
The injury to respondents established by the record is the requirement that one public street rather than another must be used for certain trips within the city.  We need not assess the magnitude of that injury to conclude that it does not involve any impairment to the kind of property interests that we have identified as being within the reach of § 1982. We therefore must consider whether the street closing violated respondents' constitutional rights.
IV
In relevant part, the Thirteenth Amendment provides:
"Neither slavery nor involuntary servitude, except as a punishment for crime whereof the party shall have been duly convicted, shall exist within the United States, or any place subject to their jurisdiction."
In this case respondents challenge the conferring of a benefit upon white citizens by a measure that places a burden on black citizens as an unconstitutional "badge of slavery." Relying on Justice Black's opinion for the Court in Palmer v. Thompson, 403 U.S. 217, the city argues that in the absence of a violation of specific enabling legislation enacted pursuant to § 2 of the Thirteenth Amendment, any judicial characterization of an isolated street closing as a badge of slavery would constitute the usurpation of "a law-making power far beyond the imagination of the amendment's authors." Id., at 227. 37
Pursuant to the authority created by § 2 of the Thirteenth   Amendment, Congress has enacted legislation to abolish both the conditions of involuntary servitude and the "badges and incidents of slavery." 38 The exercise of that authority is not inconsistent with the view that the Amendment has self-executing force.  As the Court noted in Jones v. Alfred H. Mayer Co., 392 U.S., at 439:
"'By its own unaided force and effect,' the Thirteenth Amendment 'abolished slavery' and established universal freedom.' Civil Rights Cases, 109 U.S. 3, 20. Whether or not the Amendment itself did any more than that -- a question not involved in this case -- it is at least clear that the Enabling Clause of that Amendment empowered Congress to do much more." 39
In Jones, the Court left open the question whether § 1 of the Amendment by its own terms did anything more than abolish   slavery. 40 It is also appropriate today to leave that question open because a review of the justification for the official action challenged in this case demonstrates that its disparate impact on black citizens could not, in any event, be fairly characterized as a badge or incident of slavery.
We begin our examination of respondents' Thirteenth Amendment argument by reiterating the conclusion that the record   discloses no racially discriminatory motive on the part of the City Council. 41 Instead, the record demonstrates that the interests that did motivate the Council are legitimate.  Proper management of the flow of vehicular traffic within a city requires the accommodation of a variety of conflicting interests: the motorist's interest in unhindered access to his destination, the city's interest in the efficient provision of municipal services, the commercial interest in adequate parking, the residents' interest in relative quiet, and the pedestrians' interest in safety.  Local governments necessarily exercise wide discretion in making the policy decisions that accommodate these interests.
In this case the city favored the interests of safety and tranquility. As a matter of constitutional law a city's power to adopt rules that will avoid anticipated traffic safety problems is the same as its power to correct those hazards that have been revealed by actual events.  The decision to reduce the flow of traffic on West Drive was motivated, in part, by   an interest in the safety of children walking to school. 42 That interest is equally legitimate whether it provides support for an arguably unnecessary preventive measure or for a community's reaction to a tragic accident that adequate planning might have prevented.  See Thomas Cusack Co. v. Chicago, 242 U.S. 526.
The residential interest in comparative tranquility is also unquestionably legitimate.  That interest provides support for zoning regulations, designed to protect a "quiet place where yards are wide, people few, and motor vehicles restricted . . . ." Village of Belle Terre v. Boraas, 416 U.S. 1, 9;Arlington County Board v. Richards, 434 U.S. 5, and for the accepted view that a man's home is his castle.  The interest in privacy has the same dignity in a densely populated apartment complex, cf. Payton v. New York, 445 U.S. 573, or in an affluent neighborhood of single-family homes. 43 In either context, the protection of the individual interest may involve the imposition of some burdens on the general public.
Whether the individual privacy interests of the residents of Hein Park, coupled with the interest in safety, should be considered strong enough to overcome the more general interest in the use of West Drive as a thoroughfare is the type of question that a multitude of local governments must resolve every day.  Because there is no basis for concluding that the interests favored by the city in its decision were contrived or pretextual, the District Court correctly concluded that it had no authority to review the wisdom of the city's policy decision.  See Railway Express Agency, Inc. v. New York, 336 U.S. 106, 109.
The interests motivating the city's action are thus sufficient to justify an adverse impact on motorists who are somewhat inconvenienced by the street closing.  That inconvenience cannot be equated to an actual restraint on the liberty of black citizens that is in any sense comparable to the odious practice the Thirteenth Amendment was designed to eradicate.  The argument that the closing violates the Amendment must therefore rest, not on the actual consequences of the closing, but rather on the symbolic significance of the fact that most of the drivers who will be inconvenienced by the action are black.
But the inconvenience of the drivers is a function of where they live and where they regularly drive -- not a function of their   race; the hazards and the inconvenience that the closing is intended to minimize are a function of the number of vehicles involved, not the race of their drivers or of the local residents. Almost any traffic regulation -- whether it be a temporary detour during construction, a speed limit, a one-way street, or a no-parking sign -- may have a differential impact on residents of adjacent or nearby neighborhoods. Because urban neighborhoods are so frequently characterized by a common ethnic or racial heritage, a regulation's adverse impact on a particular neighborhood will often have a disparate effect on an identifiable ethnic or racial group.  To regard an inevitable consequence of that kind as a form of stigma so severe as to violate the Thirteenth Amendment would trivialize the great purpose of that charter of freedom.  Proper respect for the dignity of the residents of any neighborhood requires that they accept the same burdens as well as the same benefits of citizenship regardless of their racial or ethnic origin.
This case does not disclose a violation of any of the enabling legislation enacted by Congress pursuant to § 2 of the Thirteenth Amendment. To decide the narrow constitutional question presented by this record we need not speculate about the sort of impact on a racial group that might be   prohibited by the Amendment itself.  We merely hold that the impact of the closing of West Drive on nonresidents of Hein Park is a routine burden of citizenship; it does not reflect a violation of the Thirteenth Amendment.
The judgment of the Court of Appeals is
Reversed.
<concur author="WHITE_B" text="TRUE">
CONCUR BY: WHITE
JUSTICE WHITE, concurring in the judgment.
In this civil rights action, respondents sought relief under the Thirteenth and Fourteenth Amendments as well as under 42 U. S. C. §§ 1982, 1983.  The District Court held that while the closure of West Drive in Memphis, Tenn., would have a disproportionate impact upon certain black residents of Memphis, the evidence did not support a finding of a purpose or intent to discriminate.  Neither was the disparate impact "so stark that a purpose or intent of racial discrimination" could be inferred.  As a consequence, and following instructions from the initial remand, the District Court concluded that respondents had failed to prove a violation of either § 1982 or § 1983. 1 The District Court did not specifically address the alleged constitutional violations, but implicitly those allegations fell on the same basis.  The Court of Appeals for the Sixth Circuit reversed the District Court's ultimate conclusion that there was no violation of § 1982, but the appellate court did not disturb the trial court's finding that there was no purposeful discrimination.  Without   explicitly saying so, the Court of Appeals necessarily held that a violation of § 1982 could be established without proof of discriminatory intent. 2 The petition for a writ of certiorari sought review of that precise point.
We granted review to answer the question presented in the petition for a writ of   certiorari.  The parties in their briefs proceeded on the same assumption.  However, instead of addressing the question which was explicitly presented by the findings and holdings below, raised by the petitioners, granted review by this Court and briefed by the parties, the Court inexplicably assumes the role of factfinder, peruses the cold record, rehashes the evidence, and sua sponte purports to resolve questions that the parties have neither briefed nor argued.  It is not surprising that the dissent has taken this same record and interpreted it in quite another way.  In any event, rather than becoming involved in the imbroglio between the majority and the dissent, I much prefer as a matter of policy and common sense to answer the question for which we took the case.  There is no good reason here to disregard our own Rule 21.1 (a), which states that " the questions set forth in the petition or fairly included therein will be considered by the Court."
We are called upon to determine whether a nonintentional adverse impact upon black citizens is a sufficient basis for relief under 42 U. S. C.  § 1982. That statute declares that " citizens of the United States shall have the same right, in every State and Territory, as is enjoyed by white citizens thereof to inherit, purchase, lease, sell, hold, and convey real and personal property." Under that language, a person's race is irrelevant to the existence of the declared rights.  No person is to be denied the enumerated rights merely because that person is not white.  Purposeful racial discrimination is quite clearly the focus of the proscription, and this understanding of § 1982 is supported by the legislative history of the Civil Rights Act of 1866, the enactment from which § 1982 was derived.
The Civil Rights Act of 1866 was enacted pursuant to § 2 of the Thirteenth Amendment. That Amendment had been adopted by the States in 1865 after the close of the Civil War.  It announced the legal demise of slavery. 3 Section 2 of the Amendment provides: "Congress shall have power to enforce this article by appropriate legislation." Although slavery was legally abolished, the Amendment foresaw that specific implementation of its command would be required to eradicate completely the deep-seated institution of slavery. The Civil Rights Act of 1866 was explicitly designed as such a practical measure.
When the 39th Congress undertook consideration of the proposed Civil Rights Act of 1866, there was a growing perception that the plight of the southern blacks had not been resolved by the adoption of the Thirteenth Amendment. 4 In   the words of one contemporary observer: "The general government of the republic has, by proclaiming the emancipation of the slaves, commenced a great social revolution in the south, but has, as yet, not completed it.  Only the negative part of it is accomplished.  The slaves are emancipated in point of form, but free labor has not yet been put in the place of slavery in point of fact." S. Exec. Doc. No. 2, 39th Cong., 1st Sess., 38 (1865). Individual Southern States had begun enacting the so-called Black Codes, 5 which, although not technically resurrecting the institution of slavery, were viewed by the Republican Congress as a large step in that direction.  See generally H. Flack, Adoption of the Fourteenth Amendment 11-54 (1908).  In addition, there was evidence that former slaves were being subjected to serious abuses at the hands of the white majority.  See Joint Committee on Reconstruction, H. R. Rep. No. 30, 39th Cong., 1st Sess., xvii and passim (1866).  The proposed Civil Rights Act was specifically designed to stem this tide of oppression.  See Jones v. Alfred H. Mayer Co., 392 U.S. 409, 426-429, and nn. 34-45 (1968). Senator Trumbull, sponsor of the bill, made this precise purpose of the Act abundantly clear:
"Since the abolition of slavery, the Legislatures which have assembled in the insurrectionary States have passed laws relating to the freedmen, and in nearly all the States they have discriminated against them.  They deny them certain rights, subject them to severe penalties, and still impose upon them the very restrictions which were imposed upon them in consequence of the existence of slavery, and before it was abolished.  The purpose of the bill under consideration is to destroy all these discriminations, and to carry into effect the constitutional amendment." Cong. Globe, 39th Cong., 1st Sess., 474 (1866).
The theme sounded by Senator Trumbull was repeated on numerous occasions during the lengthy floor debates which took place in both Houses of Congress.  The supporters of the bill emphasized time and again that the measure was designed to eradicate blatant deprivations of civil rights.  See, e. g., id ., at 322, 339-340, 474-475, 516-517, 1123, 1151-1152, 1159-1160, 1833-1835. The purpose of the Act was to insure that the abolition of slavery was accomplished in fact as well as theory:
" declared that all persons in the United States should be free.  This measure is intended to give effect to that declaration and secure to all persons within the United States practical freedom.  There is very little importance in the general declaration of abstract truths and principles unless they can be carried into effect, unless the persons who are to be affected by them have some means of availing themselves of their benefits. . . . And of what avail will it now be that the Constitution of the United States has declared that slavery shall not exist, if in the late slaveholding States laws   are to be enacted and enforced depriving persons of African descent of privileges which are essential to freemen?
"It is the intention of this bill to secure those rights." Id., at 474 (remarks of Sen. Trumbull).
The Civil Rights Act of 1866 thus was a response to the perception held by Congress that former slaves were being denied basic civil rights.  The Act would give practical effect to the Thirteenth Amendment. "The bill under consideration is intended only to carry into practical effect the amendment of the Constitution.  Its object is to declare not only that slavery shall be abolished upon the pages of your Constitution, but that it shall be abolished in fact and in deed . . . ." Id., at 1152 (remarks of Mr. Thayer).  But nothing in the legislative history of this Act suggests that Congress was concerned with facially neutral measures which happened to have an incidental impact on former slaves. 6 On the contrary, the theme of the debates surrounding this statute is that the former slaves continued to be subject to direct, intentional abuses at the hands of their former masters. That was the problem Congress intended to address and that focus should determine the reach and scope of this statute.  We have no basis for concluding anything other than that a violation of § 1982 requires some showing of racial animus or an intent to discriminate on the basis of race.  The Court of Appeals proceeded on a contrary basis and reversed the District Court's judgment without disturbing the District Court's conclusion that no discriminatory purpose had been found.  This was error, and for that reason I concur in the judgment of reversal, but would remand for further proceedings consistent with this opinion.
<dissent author="MARSHALL_T" text="TRUE">
DISSENT BY: MARSHALL
JUSTICE MARSHALL, with whom JUSTICE BRENNAN and JUSTICE BLACKMUN join, dissenting.
This case is easier than the majority makes it appear.  Petitioner city of Memphis, acting at the behest of white property owners, has closed the main thoroughfare between an all-white enclave and a predominantly Negro area of the city.  The stated explanation for the closing is of a sort all too familiar: "protecting the safety and tranquility of a residential neighborhood" by preventing "undesirable traffic" from entering it.  Too often in our Nation's history, statements such as these have been little more than code phrases for racial discrimination.  These words may still signify racial discrimination, but apparently not, after today's decision, forbidden discrimination.  The majority, purporting to rely on the evidence developed at trial, concludes that the city's stated interests are sufficient to justify erection of the barrier. Because I do not believe that either the Constitution or federal law permits a city to carve out racial enclaves I dissent.
I
In order to determine "whether the State 'in any of its manifestations' has become significantly involved in private discriminations," it is necessary to "' facts and  circumstances'" so that "'nonobvious involvement of the State in private conduct  be attributed its true significance.'" Reitman v. Mulkey, 387 U.S. 369, 378 (1967), quoting Burton v. Wilmington Parking Authority, 365 U.S. 715, 722 (1961). The key to the majority's conclusion is the view that it takes of the facts, and consequently I will review the relevant parts of the record in some detail.
The majority treats this case as involving nothing more than a dispute over a city's race-neutral decision to place a barrier across a road. My own examination of the record suggests, however, that far more is at stake here than a simple street closing.  The picture that emerges from a more careful review of the record is one of a white community, disgruntled over sharing its street with Negroes, taking legal measures to keep out the "undesirable traffic," and of a city, heedless of the harm to its Negro citizens, acquiescing in the plan.
I readily accept much of the majority's summary of the circumstances that led to this litigation.  I would, however, begin by emphasizing three critical facts.  First, as the District Court found, Hein Park "was developed well before World War II as an exclusive residential neighborhood for white citizens and these characteristics have been maintained." App. 148.  Second, the area to the north of Hein Park, like the "undesirable traffic" that Hein Park wants to keep out, is predominantly Negro.  And third, the closing of West Drive stems entirely from the efforts of residents of Hein Park.  Up to this point, the majority and I are in agreement.  But we part company over our characterizations of the evidence developed in the course of the trial of this case.  At the close of the evidence, the trial court described this as "a situation where an all white neighborhood is seeking to stop the traffic from an overwhelmingly black neighborhood from coming through their street." Tr. 323.  In the legal and factual context before us, I find that a revealing summary of the case.  The majority apparently does not.
According to the majority, the Court of Appeals concluded that respondents were entitled to relief based on four facts that the panel gleaned from the District Court's findings.  These facts were:
"(1) that the closing would benefit a white neighborhood and adversely affect ; (2) that a 'barrier was to be erected precisely at the point of separation of these neighborhoods and would undoubtedly have the effect of limiting contact between them'; (3) that the closing was not part of a citywide plan but rather was a 'unique step to protect one neighborhood from outside influences which the residents considered to be "undesirable"'; and (4) that there was evidence of 'an economic depreciation in the property values in the predominantly black residential area.'" Ante, at 109 (footnote omitted).
By purportedly examining the evidence supporting each of the four points, the majority is able to conclude that the court below was mistaken and that the only effect of the closing of West Drive is "some slight inconvenience to black motorists." Ante, at 119.  A more detailed study of the record convinces me, to the contrary, that the Court of Appeals was entirely justified in each of its conclusions.
The majority does not seriously dispute the first of the four facts relied on by the Court of Appeals.  In fact it concedes that the trial court "clearly concluded .  . . that the adverse impact on blacks was greater than on whites." Ante, at 110, n. 15.  The majority suggests, however, that this "impact" is limited to the "inconvenience" that will be suffered by drivers who live in the predominantly Negro area north of Hein Park and who will no longer be able to drive through the subdivision.  This, says the majority, is because residents of the area north of Hein Park will still be able to get where they are going; they will just have to go a little out of their way and thus will take a little longer to complete the trip.
This analysis ignores the plain and powerful symbolic message of the "inconvenience." Many places to which residents of the area north of Hein Park would logically drive lie to the south of the subdivision. 1 Until the closing of West Drive, the most direct route for those who lived on or near Springdale St. was straight down West Drive. Now the Negro drivers are being told in essence: "You must take the long way around because you don't live in this 'protected' white neighborhood." Negro residents of the area north of Hein Park testified at trial that this is what they thought the city was telling them by closing West Drive. See, e. g., Tr. 22-23, 34 (testimony of N. T. Greene); id., at 64 (testimony of Eleanore Cross).  See also id., at 111 (testimony of   Dr. Marvin Feit).  Even the District Court, which granted judgment for petitioners, conceded that ", the black people north of  . . . are being told to stay out of the subdivision." Id., at 317.  In my judgment, this message constitutes a far greater adverse impact on respondents than the majority would prefer to believe. 2
The majority also does not challenge the Sixth Circuit's second finding, that the barrier is being erected at the point of contact of the two communities. Nor could it do so, because the fact is not really in dispute.  The Court attempts instead to downplay the significance of this barrier by calling it "a curb that will not impede the passage of municipal vehicles." Ante, at 112.  But that is beside the point.  Respondents did not bring this suit to challenge the exclusion of municipal vehicles from Hein Park.  Their goal is to preserve access for their own vehicles.  But in fact, they may not even be able to preserve access for their own persons.  The city is creating the barrier across West Drive by deeding public property to private landowners.  Nothing will prevent the residents of Hein Park from excluding "undesirable" pedestrian as well as vehicular traffic if they so choose.  See Tr. 136, 217-219, 317-318. What is clear is that there will be a barrier to traffic that is to be erected precisely at the point where West Drive (and thus, all-white Hein Park) ends and Springdale St. (and the mostly Negro section) begins.
The psychological effect of this barrier is likely to be significant.  In   his unchallenged expert testimony in the trial court, Dr. Marvin Feit, a professor of psychiatry at the University of Tennessee, predicted that the barrier between West Drive and Springdale St. will reinforce feelings about the city's "favoritism" toward whites and will "serve as a monument to racial hostility." Id., at 103, 104-105.  The testimony of Negro residents and of a real estate agent familiar with the area provides powerful support for this prediction. 3 As the District Court put it: " are not going to be able to convince those black people out there that they didn't do it because they were black.  They are helping a white neighborhood. Now, that is a problem that somebody is going to have to live with . . . ." Id., at 325.  I cannot subscribe to the majority's apparent view that the city's erection of this "monument to racial hostility" amounts to nothing more than a "slight inconvenience." Thus, unlike the majority, I do not minimize the significance of the barrier itself in determining the harm respondents will suffer from its erection. 4
The majority does not attempt to question the third conclusion by the Court of Appeals, that the closing of West Drive is intended as a protection of Hein Park against "undesirable" outside influences.  Rather, its disagreement with   the Court of Appeals is over the inference to be drawn.  The majority insists that to the extent that the Court of Appeals found racially discriminatory intent, that finding is not supported by the record.  The majority also asserts, ante, at 114, that there is "no evidence" that either the residents of Hein Park or the city officials were motivated by any racial considerations.  A proper reading of the record demonstrates to the contrary that respondents produced at trial precisely the kind of evidence of intent that we deemed probative in Arlington Heights v. Metropolitan Housing Dev. Corp., 429 U.S. 252, 267-268 (1977). 5
The term "undesirable traffic" first entered this litigation through the trial testimony of Sarah Terry.  Terry, a West Drive resident who opposed the closing, testified that she was urged to support the barrier by an individual who explained to her that "the traffic on the street was undesirable traffic." Tr. 140. 6 The majority apparently reads the term "undesirable" as referring to the prospect of having any traffic at all on West Drive. But the common-sense understanding of Terry's testimony must be that the word "undesirable" was meant to describe the traffic that was actually using the street, as opposed to any traffic that might use it.  Of course, the traffic that was both actually using the street and would be affected by the barrier was predominantly Negro. 7
But Terry's testimony is not, as the majority implies, the only Arlington Heights-type evidence produced at trial.  The testimony of city planning officials, for example, strongly suggests that the city deviated from its usual procedures in deciding to close West Drive. In particular, despite an unambiguous requirement that applications for street closings be signed by "all" owners of property abutting on the thoroughfare to be closed, the city here permitted this application to go through without the signature or the consent of   Sarah Terry. 8 Perhaps more important, the city gave no notice to the Negro property owners living north of Hein Park that the Planning Commission was considering an application to close West Drive. The Planning Commission held its hearing without participation by any of the affected Negro residents and it declined to let them examine the file on the West Drive closing.  It gave no notice that the City Council would be considering the issue.  When respondents found out about it, they sought to state their case. But the Council gave opponents of the proposal only 15 minutes, even though some members objected that that was not enough time.  Furthermore, although the majority treats West Drive as just another closing, it is, according to the city official in charge of closings, the only time the city has ever closed a street for traffic control purposes.  Tr. 297-298 (testimony of Paul Goldstein).  See id., at 313, 321-322 (comments of trial judge).  And it cannot be disputed that all parties were aware of the disparate racial impact of the erection of the barrier. 9 The city of Memphis, moreover, has an unfortunate but very real history of racial segregation -- a history that has in the past led to intercession by this Court. 10 All these factors represent precisely the kind of evidence that we said in Arlington Heights was relevant to an inquiry into motivation. Regardless of whether this evidence is viewed as conclusive, it can hardly be stated with accuracy that "no evidence" exists. 11
Most important, I believe that the findings of the District Court and the record in this case fully support the Court of Appeals' conclusion that Negro property owners are likely to suffer economic harm as a result of the construction of the barrier. In attempting to demonstrate to the trial court that the closing of West Drive would adversely affect their property, respondents first introduced the testimony of H. C. Moore, a real estate agent with 17 years' experience in the field.  Moore began by predicting that after West Drive was closed, Hein Park would become "more or less a Utopia within the city of Memphis," families who had left the inner city for the suburbs would probably return in order to live there, and the property values in Hein Park "would be enhanced greatly." Tr. 91-92.  Moore was then asked what effect the closing would have on the property values in the Springdale area.  He responded: "From an economic standpoint there would not be a lessening of value in those properties in the Springdale area, but from a psychological standpoint, it would have a tendency to have a demoralizing -- ." Id., at 92.  At this point, counsel for petitioners interposed an objection, but Moore was eventually permitted to answer the question, and he testified as follows:
"In my opinion, with the 17 years experience in the real estate industry, psychologically it would have a deterring, depressing effect on those individuals who might live north of the Hein Park area.  With the closure of the street, the creation of another little haven, the fact that these people are in a lower economic social group and wouldn't be able to actually afford housing with the illustrious price tags of those houses in the Hein Park area, it would be, in my opinion, like the individual looking in the pastry store who doesn't have a dime and who can't afford it.  And consequently, as a result of such, their moralistic values on their properties could tend to be such that the upkeep would not be nearly so great and it could have a detrimental effect on the property values in the future." Id., at 95.
Surely Moore's uncontroverted expert testimony is evidence of an impairment of property values, an impairment directly traceable to the closing of West Drive. The majority dismisses this aspect of Moore's testimony as "speculation." Ante , at 117-118.  Yet the majority has no trouble crediting Moore's brief and conclusory testimony that the immediate impact of the closing would be negligible.  Unlike the majority, I am unable to dismiss so blithely the balance of his comments.
The majority also gives insufficient weight to the testimony of Dr. Feit on this point.  Dr. Feit testified, based on his experience as Director of Planning for Allegheny County, Pa., that the shift in traffic patterns as a result of the closing of West Drive would lower the property values for owners living north of Hein Park.  He further testified that the closing of West Drive would lead to increased hostility toward Hein Park residents and, ultimately, to increased police harassment of residents of the Springdale area.  Tr. 102-104, 118-120. 12 I would have thought it indisputable that increased police harassment of property owners must be construed as a significant impairment of their property interests.  In my view, the combined testimony of Dr. Feit and real estate expert Moore is sufficient to demonstrate that the closing of West Drive will cause genuine harm to the property rights of the Negro residents of the area north of Hein Park.
In sum, I cannot agree with the majority's suggestion that " injury to respondents established by the record is the requirement that one public street rather than another must be used for certain trips within the city," ante, at 124, and that this requirement amounts to no more than "some slight inconvenience," ante, at 119.  Indeed, as should be clear from the foregoing, the problem is less the closing of West Drive in particular than the establishment of racially determined districts which the closing effects.  I can only agree with the Court of Appeals, which viewed the city's action as nothing more than "one more of the many humiliations which society has historically visited" on Negro citizens.  610 F.2d, at 404. In my judgment, respondents provided ample evidence that erection of the challenged barrier will harm them in several significant ways.  Respondents are being sent a clear, though sophisticated, message that because of their race, they are to stay out of the all-white enclave of Hein Park and should instead take the long way around in reaching their destinations to the south.  Combined with this message are the prospects of increased police harassment and of a decline in their property values. It is on the basis of these facts, all firmly established by the record, that I evaluate the legal questions presented by this case.
II
When Congress enacted § 1 of the Civil Rights Act of 1866, 14 Stat. 27, now 42 U. S. C. § 1982, it intended "to prohibit all racial discrimination, whether or not under color of law, with respect to the rights enumerated therein. . . ." Jones v. Alfred H. Mayer Co., 392 U.S. 409, 436 (1968). See Tillman v. Wheaton-Haven Recreation Assn., Inc., 410 U.S. 431, 435 (1973);   Sullivan v. Little Hunting Park, Inc., 396 U.S. 229, 235 (1969). These enumerated rights include the rights "to inherit, purchase, lease, sell, hold, and convey real and personal property." 42 U. S. C. § 1982. At bottom, as the majority recognizes, § 1982 creates a right in Negroes "not to have property interests impaired because of their race." Ante, at 122. 13 Our decisions have recognized that the language of the statute is to be broadly construed.  We have said that "' are not at liberty to seek ingenious analytical instruments,'" to carve exceptions from § 1982.  Jones v. Alfred H. Mayer Co., supra, at 437, quoting United States v. Price, 383 U.S. 787, 801 (1966). On the contrary, " narrow construction of the language of § 1982 would be quite inconsistent with the broad and sweeping nature of the protection meant to be afforded by § 1 of the Civil Rights Act of 1866 . . . ." Sullivan v. Little Hunting Park, Inc., supra, at 237. If the language of the statute is given the broad reading that our cases require,  then it is difficult to see how petitioners can avoid its effect.
The majority concludes that the kind of harm that § 1982 was meant to prohibit does not exist in this case, but as I have stated, a proper reading of the record demonstrates substantial harm to respondents' property rights as a result of the establishment of a barrier at the northern edge of Hein Park.  The closing will both burden respondents' ability to enjoy their property and also depress its value, thus falling within the literal language of § 1982. 14 Even the majority concedes that "the statute might be violated by official action that depreciated the value of property owned by  citizens." Ante, at 123.  I believe that that is precisely what is challenged in this case. 15
The legislative history of § 1982 also supports my conclusion that the carving out of racial enclaves within a city is precisely the kind of injury that the statute was enacted to prevent.  In Jones v. Alfred H. Mayer Co., supra , at 422-437, this Court discussed the legislative history of the Civil Rights Act of 1866 in some detail, and there is no need to duplicate all of that discussion here.  A few examples should suffice.
When the Civil Rights Act of 1866 was introduced, both its supporters and its opponents alike recognized the revolutionary scope of its intended purpose of eliminating discrimination.  As we noted in Jones v. Alfred H. Mayer Co., supra:
"That the bill would indeed have so sweeping an effect was seen as its great virtue by its friends and its great danger by its enemies but was disputed by none.  Opponents of the bill charged that it would not only regulate state laws but would directly 'determine the persons who  enjoy . . . property within the States,' threatening the ability of white citizens 'to determine who  be members of  . . . .'" 392 U.S., at 433 (footnotes omitted; emphasis added).
Senator Van Winkle, the Member of Congress quoted by the Court in that passage from Jones, spoke at some length about the "dangers" inherent in the bill that would eventually become § 1982:
"I believe that the division of men into separate communities and their living in society and association with their fellows . . . are both divine institutions . .  . .  We have the right to determine who shall be members of our community, and . . . I do not see where it comes in that we are bound to receive into our community those whose mingling with us might be detrimental to our interests.  I do not believe that a superior race is bound to receive among it those of an inferior race . . . ." Cong. Globe, 39th Cong., 1st Sess., 498 (1866).
The Senate of course passed the bill in spite of Senator Van Winkle's fears, thus repudiating his view that white residents should enjoy the absolute right to close their communities to Negroes.  In enacting § 1982,   Congress was "fully aware of the breadth of the measure it had approved." Jones v. Alfred H. Mayer Co., 392 U.S., at 433. Senator Lane, a supporter of the bill, answered the arguments of Senator Van Winkle and others by explaining that the bill would prevent a white person from " the power of local prejudice" against a Negro.  Cong. Globe, 39th Cong., 1st Sess., at 603.  Senator Trumbull, a sponsor of the legislation, made plain that it was intended to prohibit local discriminatory customs as well as discriminatory state laws.  Id., at 1759. During the House debate over the Civil Rights Act, Representative Cook argued that without the legislation, slavery might be perpetuated "under other names and in other forms" because " combination of men in  neighborhood" might join to oppress him.  Id., at 1124.  As we recognized in Jones v. Alfred H. Mayer Co., supra, at 427-428, one goal of the Reconstruction Congress in enacting the statute was to provide protection for Negroes when "white citizens . . . combined to drive them out of their communities." See Cong. Globe, 39th Cong., 1st Sess., at 1156, 1835; J. tenBroek, Equal Under Law 181 (rev. ed. 1965).
I do not, of course, mean to suggest that the Reconstruction Congress that enacted § 1982 anticipated the precise situation presented by this case.  Nor do I wish to imply that the Act prevents government from ever closing a street when the effect is to inflict harm on Negro property owners.  But because of our Nation's sad legacy of discrimination and the broad remedial purpose of § 1982, I believe that official actions whose effects fall within its terms ought to be closely scrutinized.  When,  as here, the decisionmaker takes action with full knowledge of its enormously disproportionate racial impact, 16 I believe that § 1982 requires that the government carry a heavy burden in order to justify its action.  Absent such a justification, the injured property owners are entitled to relief.  There is no need to suggest here just how great the government's burden should be, because the reasons set forth by the city for the closing of West Drive could not, on the facts of this case, survive any but the most minimal scrutiny.
In sustaining the closing of West Drive, the majority points to petitioners' " management of the flow of vehicular traffic within a city," and their exercise of the "unquestionably legitimate" "residential interest in comparative tranquility," ante, at 126, 127. 17 Those interests might, as the majority contends, well prove "sufficient to justify an adverse impact on motorists who are somewhat inconvenienced by the street closing," ante, at 128, but that is not the impact that the city must explain in this case.  It must instead   justify the substantial injury that it has inflicted on Negro citizens solely for the benefit of the white residents of Hein Park.  For that purpose, the proffered explanations are insufficient.  " city's possible motivations to ensure safety and save money cannot validate an otherwise impermissible state action." Palmer v. Thompson, 403 U.S. 217, 226 (1971). See Watson v. Memphis, 373 U.S. 526, 537 (1963); Cooper v. Aaron, 358 U.S. 1, 16 (1958); Buchanan v. Warley, 245 U.S. 60, 74, 81 (1917). It is simply unrealistic to suggest, as does the Court, that the harm suffered by respondents has no more than "symbolic significance," ante, at 128, and it defies the lessons of history and law to assert that if the harm is only symbolic, then the federal courts cannot recognize it.  Compare Plessy v. Ferguson, 163 U.S. 537, 551 (1896) ("We consider the underlying fallacy of the plaintiff's argument to consist in the assumption that the enforced separation of the two races stamps the colored race with a badge of inferiority.  If this be so, it is not by reason of anything found in the act, but solely because the colored race chooses to put that construction upon it"), with Brown v. Board of Education, 347 U.S. 483, 494 (1954) ("To separate them from others . . . solely because of their race generates a feeling of inferiority as to their status in the community that may affect their hearts and minds in a way unlikely ever to be undone. . . . Whatever may have been the extent of psychological knowledge at the time of Plessy v. Ferguson, this finding is amply supported by modern authority").  The message the city is sending to Negro residents north of Hein Park is clear, and I am at a loss to understand why the majority feels so free to ignore it.
Indeed, until today I would have thought that a city's erection of a barrier, at the behest of a historically all-white community, to keep out predominantly Negro traffic, would have been among the least of the statute's prohibitions. Certainly I suspect that the Congress that enacted § 1982 would be surprised to learn that it has no application to such a case.  Even the few portions of debate that I have cited make clear that a major concern of the statute's supporters was the elimination of the effects of local prejudice on Negro residents. In my view, the evidence before us supports a strong inference that the operation of such prejudice is precisely what has led to the closing of West Drive. And against this record, the government should be required to do far more than it has here to justify an action that so obviously damages and stigmatizes a racially identifiable group of its citizens.
In short, I conclude that the plain language of § 1982 and its legislative history show that the harm established by a fair reading of this record falls within the prohibition of the statute.  Because the Court of   Appeals reached the same conclusion, I would affirm its judgment.  18
III
I end, then, where I began.  Given the majority's decision to characterize this case as a mere policy decision on the part of the city of Memphis to close a street for valid municipal reasons, the conclusion that it reaches follows inevitably.  But the evidence in this case, combined with a dab of common sense, paints a far different picture from the one emerging from the majority's opinion.  In this picture a group of white citizens has decided to act to keep Negro citizens from traveling through their urban "utopia," and the city has placed its seal of approval on the scheme.  It is this action that I believe is forbidden, and it is for that reason that I dissent.
