OPINION
JUSTICE STEVENS delivered the opinion of the Court.
Petitioners contend that an affirmative-action plan adopted by the California Department of Corrections in 1974 is unconstitutional under the Equal Protection Clause of the Fourteenth Amendment. The trial court agreed and entered judgment in petitioners' favor.  The California Court of Appeal reversed, 95 Cal. App. 3d 506, 157 Cal. Rptr. 260, holding that the trial court's rationale was no longer tenable in light of this Court's intervening decision in University of California Regents v. Bakke, 438 U.S. 265. The Court of Appeal's opinion, however, also identified certain problems that "require examination if the case is to be retried." Thus although we granted certiorari to review the merits of the Court of  Appeal's decision, 448 U.S. 910, we first must confront the question whether the writ should be dismissed because the judgment did not finally determine the legal status of the challenged plan.
I
The 1974 "Affirmative Action Program," as revised in 1975, is a lengthy and somewhat ambiguous document.  Much of the plan relates to the Department's commitment to the eradication of discrimination on the basis of race and sex. The plan's first section, which describes the program in general terms, states:
"It is the policy of the Department of Corrections to provide equal employment opportunities for all persons on the basis of merit and fitness and to prohibit discrimination based on race, sex, color, religion, national origin, or ancestry in every aspect of personnel policy and practices in the employment, career development, advancement and treatment of employees." 1
This section of the plan then identifies specific means of implementing this general nondiscriminatory policy. 2 The second section of the plan, which establishes guidelines for the implementation of the program within the existing organizational structure and defines the affirmative-action roles of Department employees, also contains a number of provisions suggesting that the plan was intended to remove any barriers to equal employment opportunities. 3 Finally, the third section, which identifies specific objectives of the plan, also refers to departmental efforts to eliminate discrimination in hiring and in employment practices. 4
The plan does, however, contain some indication that the Department intended to go beyond the eradication of discriminatory practices. The second section states that deputy directors, assistant directors, and division chiefs were to be responsible for developing a plan to "correct identifiable . . . deficiencies through specific, measurable, attainable hiring and promotional goals with target dates in each area of underutilization." 5 The plan also refers to "guidelines" issued by the Law Enforcement Assistance Administration of the United States Department of Justice (LEAA) indicating "that an Agency's percentage of minority personnel should be at least 70% of that minority in its   service (inmate population)." 6 Moreover, the plan notes that in "the total labor force in California, 38.1% are female; Department of Corrections' personnel reflect a total of only 17.3%." 7 The section of the plan containing objectives indicates a commitment by the Department to " departmental efforts to employ minorities and women to achieve the percentages . . . per LEAA guidelines within five (5) years," and to achieve a work force containing 36% minorities and 38% women. 8 The plan does not identify what means, in addition to eradicating discriminatory practices, the Department would employ to achieve these percentages.  Thus, the plan may be interpreted as predicting that a nondiscriminatory policy would result in a work force including 36% minority and 38% female employees by 1979; alternatively, it may be read as   mandating affirmative action to achieve these percentages by the target date. 9
II
In December 1975 the three petitioners commenced this litigation in a California Superior Court.  Minnick and Darden, the individual petitioners, are white male correctional officers.  The third petitioner, the California Correction Officers Association (CCOA), is an employee organization that represents correctional officers and some other employees of the Department.  In their complaint petitioners alleged that the affirmative-action plan unlawfully discriminated   against white males and that the individual petitioners had been denied promotions because they were white.
The California Department of Corrections and various state officers named as defendants, respondents here, denied in the trial court that they had discriminated in hiring and promotion and claimed that the Department's central policy was to hire and promote only the most qualified persons. 10 Alternatively, however, the respondents contended that the State's interest in the efficient and safe operation of the corrections system justifies an attempt to obtain a work force containing a proportion of minority employees amounting to at least 70% of any minority's proportional representation in the inmate population, and also containing as large a percentage of female employees as are found in the total California work force. 11 During pretrial discovery, respondents also indicated that the impact of their past practices had resulted in a disproportionate hiring and promotion of white males, but stated "for the purposes of this litigation" that they did not allege that the Department had engaged in any past intentional discrimination against minority or female workers. 12
After a trial at which over 30 witnesses testified, the case was argued at length and submitted to the trial judge for decision on November 23, 1976.  At that time the Supreme Court of California had only recently held in Bakke v. University of California Regents, 18 Cal. 3d 34, 553 P. 2d 1152 (1976), that the Equal Protection Clause of the Fourteenth Amendment to the United States Constitution prohibited a state university from giving any consideration to an applicant's race in making admissions decisions.
On January 5, 1977, the trial judge issued a "notice of intended decision" which tersely summarized the parties' respective positions:
"The testimony and documentary evidence herein show, and defendants admit, that defendants have carried on a campaign to, and they do now, select applicants for employment and for promotion based on their sex and on their racial background or ancestry.
"Defendants seek to justify their actions on the basis that while the sex of an applicant is one of the factors considered,  the applicant must be otherwise qualified for the duties to be performed.  Sex or racial background is not the sole factor considered.  Plaintiffs on the other hand assert that the hiring or promotion of a person based in whole or in part on sex or racial background or ancestry is unconstitutional and void.
"The Court agrees with plaintiffs." App. to Pet. for Cert. D-1 -- D-2.
The notice then directed that an injunction issue enjoining the respondents "from considering as a factor for employment or for the promotion of a candidate his sex, race or national origin." Id., at D-2.  The court directed counsel to prepare an appropriate order and to submit proposed findings of fact and conclusions of law.
Before any further order was entered, respondents filed a motion to reopen the record and to receive detailed evidence of past discriminatory practices. 13 Presumably the proffered evidence would provide support for a defense based on the theory that the plan was justified as a remedy for past discrimination.  The evidence was, however, quite plainly irrelevant to the theory of the trial judge's intended decision which was, of course, wholly consistent with the rationale of the California Supreme Court's opinion in Bakke, supra.  The trial judge summarily denied the motion to reopen.
On October 11, 1977, the trial court entered findings of fact and conclusions of law, a declaratory judgment, and a permanent injunction. Id., at F-1, G-1.  The court did not find that either of the individual petitioners had been denied a promotion on the basis of his race or sex. Nor did the court find that the CCOA had standing to bring the action.  Two of the findings that the court did enter (No. 8 relating to hiring and promotions and No. 19 relating to job assignments) are especially relevant to the procedural issue before us.
Finding No. 8 provides, in part:
"Defendants Department of Corrections and Jeri J. Enomoto have discriminated and are continuing to discriminate by reason of sex and by reason of ethnic background in hiring and promotion of employees in the Department.
. . . .
"In so doing, preferences result in favor of certain ethnic groups,  or in favor of one sex to the detriment of the other, and not solely on the qualifications of the individuals involved, or their merits." Id., at F-4.
Finding No. 19 provides:
"The unique and sensitive nature of the functions of the Department of Corrections and the peculiar difficulties inherent in the administration of California's prison system require the Department to exercise broad discretion in making job assignments and in determining the employment responsibilities of its employees.  Because of the conditions and circumstances within California prisons and throughout the Department of Corrections, in making job   assignments and in determining employment responsibilities it is necessary for the Department to consider, among other factors, the composition of the existing work force and of the inmate population, and the race and sex of employees, in order to serve the compelling state interest in promoting the safety of correctional officers and inmates, encouraging inmate rehabilitation, minimizing racial tensions, and furthering orderly and efficient prison management." Id., at F-6 -- F-7.
In the conclusions of law and in the permanent injunction,  the trial court distinguished hiring and promotion decisions, on the one hand, from job assignments and determination of employment responsibilities, on the other. Finding No. 19 relates only to the latter and provides the basis for the trial court's conclusion that respondents could lawfully consider race and sex as factors in determining job assignments and job responsibilities. 14 That finding also explains the proviso in the permanent injunction allowing the use of race or sex as a factor in making job assignments. 15 Finding No. 8,   however, provides the central support for the permanent injunction against giving any preference, advantage, or benefit on the basis of race or sex in hiring or promoting any employee. 16
III
Respondents appealed to the California Court of Appeal.  While their appeal was pending, this Court issued its decision in University of California Regents v. Bakke, 438 U.S. 265. Although we affirmed the judgment of the California Supreme Court to the extent that it had ordered the University to admit Bakke to its medical school, the opinions supporting that decision indicated that at least five Members of the Court rejected the legal theory on which the California Supreme Court had relied.  Specifically, both the opinion of JUSTICE BRENNAN, JUSTICE WHITE, JUSTICE MARSHALL, and JUSTICE BLACKMUN and the opinion of JUSTICE POWELL unequivocally stated that race may be used as a factor in the admissions process in some circumstances. 17 To the extent that those opinions demonstrated that the California Supreme Court's interpretation of the Fourteenth Amendment was erroneous, they also demonstrated that the trial judge's faithful application of that court's Bakke rationale in this case was an insufficient basis for supporting the injunction.
With the guidance of this Court's decision in Bakke, the California Court of Appeal reversed the judgment and the injunction entered by the trial court in this case.  Relying largely on JUSTICE POWELL'S opinion in Bakke, the Court of Appeal concluded that race or sex could be used as a "plus" factor in personnel decisions that promoted a compelling state interest. 18 The court seemed to indicate that the trial court's finding No. 19 supported a conclusion that the State's interest in a safe and efficient prison system constituted such an interest. 19
With respect to the challenge to hiring procedures, the Court of Appeal concluded that the evidence was insufficient to support finding No. 8 insofar as that finding related to preferences in favor of males over females or insofar as it related to the hiring of any employees. 20 References to the possibility of a retrial in other portions of the opinion, 21 imply that petitioners will have an opportunity to remedy any deficiencies in   their proof of sex discrimination or racial discrimination in hiring.
With respect to the challenge to promotion practices, the Court of Appeal apparently believed that the trial court's finding of discrimination in finding No. 8 was inconsistent with the trial court's finding No. 19. 22 Although finding No. 19 clearly applies only to transfers, the court seems to have read that finding to identify a compelling state interest and then to have determined that the evidence adequately justified the use of race as a plus factor for promotions as well as transfers.  The court, however, may have merely intended to identify a permissible analysis of the record that will be open to the trial court on remand. 23 If a final and definitive determination   of the federal issue was actually intended, it  is difficult to understand why the court left open the possibility of retrial and did not unequivocally direct that judgment be entered in favor of respondents.
Recognizing that the evidence of past discrimination that had been proffered by respondents might be relevant in support of a defense that the affirmative-action program was justified as a remedy for past discrimination within the Department of Corrections, 24 the Court of Appeal also left open for the retrial the question whether that evidence should be received.  Finally, the Court of Appeal rejected each of petitioners' contentions that a violation of state law or federal statutory law had been proved, and then concluded by noting that jurisdictional problems concerning petitioners' standing "require examination if the case is to be retried." 25
IV
In this Court respondents, as well as the Solicitor General on behalf of the United States as amicus curiae, urge us to dismiss the writ because the judgment of the Court of Appeal is not final. 26 See Gospel Army v. Los Angeles, 331 U.S. 543. The judgment is clearly not final in the sense that no further proceedings can possibly take place in the state judicial system. Petitioners argue, however, that there is finality under our cases because the ultimate judgment on the federal issue is for all practical purposes preordained.  This argument is supported by a representation made by petitioners' counsel at oral argument in this Court that the record already contains all of the evidence that they are prepared to offer. 27 Nevertheless, we are not persuaded that the outcome of further proceedings in the trial court can be characterized as "certain" or that these proceedings will not have a significant effect on the federal constitutional issues presented by the certiorari petition. 28
In Cox Broadcasting Corp. v. Cohn, 420 U.S. 469, this Court identified four categories of cases in which a state court's decision of a federal issue had been treated as a final judgment even though additional proceedings in the state trial court were anticipated.  Petitioners contend that this case falls within the first of those categories -- that it is a case in which "for one reason or another the federal issue is conclusive or the outcome of further proceedings is preordained." 29 That category is, however, delimited by a preliminary comment in the Cox opinion:
"In the cases in the first two categories considered below, the federal issue would not be mooted or otherwise affected by the proceedings yet to be had because those proceedings have little substance, their outcome is certain, or they are wholly unrelated to the federal question." Id., at 478.
The answer to the question whether the further proceedings in the state trial court "have little substance" or are "wholly unrelated to the federal question" is affected not only by the specifics of the particular litigation but also by the extent to which the "policy of strict necessity in disposing of constitutional issues," Rescue Army v. Municipal Court, 331 U.S. 549, 568, is implicated. 30 In that case, notwithstanding   a conclusion that the Court had jurisdiction to entertain the appeal, id ., at 565-568, the Court's analysis of the policy of strict necessity provided "compelling reasons for not exercising" its mandatory appellate jurisdiction. Id., at 568. Those reasons were the "highly abstract form" in which the constitutional issues were presented, id., at 575-580, the "ambiguous" character of the California court's construction of the Los Angeles Municipal Code, id., at 581-584, and a belief that further proceedings in the state court would ultimately tender "the underlying constitutional issues in clean-cut and concrete form." Id., at 584.
In this case our analysis of the question whether the federal constitutional issues may be affected by additional proceedings in the state courts -- and therefore take the case out of the first category of final judgments described in Cox -- is similarly affected by ambiguities in the record, both as to the character of the petitioners' prima facie case and as to the character of the respondents' justification for their program.
Petitioners contend that the program was designed to give minority employees specific proportions of the available jobs in the Corrections Department.  The trial court found that respondents "have discriminated and are continuing to discriminate by reason of sex and by reason of ethnic background in hiring and promotion of employees in the Department." 31 Although that finding also recited that the discrimination was "motivated at least in part" by the affirmative-action plan, it did not indicate the extent to which such discrimination had occurred.  Because the trial court interpreted the relevant constitutional law absolutely to prohibit any such discrimination in hiring or promotion, the court did not need to make any more specific finding. Several assumptions would therefore be consistent with the general finding of discrimination.  One could assume either that all hiring and promotion decisions have been affected by the goal of achieving certain percentage quotas as to race and sex, or that race or sex has been a factor in only certain specific decisions.  Included in the latter assumption are the two possibilities that race or sex was a factor in a fairly large number of random decisions, or that race or sex was a motivating factor only in connection with certain types of jobs with respect to which the Superior Court expressly permitted transfers or job assignments motivated by either the race or sex of the employee. 32 In sum, the Superior Court's findings do not go beyond a determination that there was some discrimination in hiring and promotion.
If we accept the Court of Appeal's interpretation of the record, we must assume   that the respondents have used race as a factor in making promotion decisions but not in making hiring decisions. 33 Like the findings of the Superior Court, however, the opinion of the Court of Appeal does not indicate whether race was considered relevant for all promotions or just in connection with promotions to particular positions.  The fact that the Court of Appeal relied on the finding that race was a relevant factor in making certain job assignments to justify the use of race or sex in connection with promotions implies that the court thought race or sex had been a factor only in making promotions to a limited number of positions. 34 But the court did not so state expressly and it did not identify any specific position to which promotions or transfers motivated by race or sex had been made.
Thus on the one hand, if the first interpretation of the opinion is correct, and race was relevant only in making certain specific decisions, then adequate review of a narrow holding of that kind would require a more detailed identification of the particular positions involved than is now contained in findings that were prepared by the trial judge to support a quite different disposition of the case.  On the other hand, if the Court of Appeal concluded that respondents had followed a general policy of using race as a factor in making promotions, and that such a policy was justified by the State's interest in a safe and efficient prison system, adequate review of a broad holding of that kind would require an understanding of how such a sweeping policy was implemented and why such a policy should be applied in the promotion   context and not in the hiring context. 35 The trial court's findings contain no such explanation because the trial court did not find that respondents had engaged in any such bifurcated policy. 36
An additional uncertainty concerning the precise issue to be decided is that the Court of Appeal expressed doubt concerning the trial court's jurisdiction over any claims asserted by CCOA and noted that petitioners Minnick and Darden were not entitled to damages or injunctive relief as individuals.  95 Cal. App. 3d, at 526, 157 Cal. Rptr., at 272. Because the trial court's denial of petitioners' motion to certify the case as a class action was predicated on a stipulation that the court had jurisdiction to grant declaratory relief without any such certification, and because the Court of Appeal held that jurisdiction could not be conferred by stipulation, it is at least possible that claims on behalf of additional employees or job applicants may be asserted on remand. They, as well as the present petitioners, will have the right -- even though petitioners' counsel have no such present intent -- to adduce additional evidence in support of the complaint, or to amend their pleadings in the light of the developments in the law that have occurred since the original complaint was filed. 37 Moreover, whether or not additional evidence is   taken, the trial judge is unquestionably free to recast his findings in response to those legal developments.
Accordingly, because of significant developments in the law -- and perhaps in the facts as well 38 -- and because of significant ambiguities in the record concerning both the extent to which race or sex has been used as a factor in making promotions and the justification for such use, we conclude that we should not address the constitutional issues until the proceedings in the trial court are finally concluded and the state appellate courts have completed their review of the trial court record.
Accordingly, the writ of certiorari is dismissed.
So ordered.
<concur author="REHNQUIST" text="TRUE">
CONCUR BY: REHNQUIST; BRENNAN
JUSTICE REHNQUIST, concurring.
If I viewed this judgment of the California Court of Appeal as "final" under 28 U. S. C. ยง  1257, I would join the dissenting opinion of JUSTICE STEWART.  Since I do not so view it, however, I join the opinion of the Court dismissing the writ of certiorari for want of jurisdiction.
<concur author="BRENNAN" text="TRUE">
JUSTICE BRENNAN, concurring in the judgment.
"In view of the ambiguities in the record as to the issues sought to be tendered," I would dismiss the writ of certiorari as improvidently granted. Mitchell v. Oregon Frozen Foods Co., 361 U.S. 231 (1960); see Doe v. Delaware, 450 U.S. 382, 386, n. 10 (1981) (BRENNAN, J., dissenting); Cowgill v. California, 396 U.S. 371, 371-372 (1970) (Harlan, J., concurring).
<dissent author="STEWART" text="TRUE">
DISSENT BY: STEWART
JUSTICE STEWART, dissenting.
I would not dismiss the writ of certiorari. I would, to the contrary, reverse the judgment before us because the California Court of Appeal has wrongly held that the State may consider a person's race in making promotion decisions. 1
So far as the Constitution goes, a private person may engage in any racial discrimination he wants, cf.  Steelworkers v. Weber, 443 U.S. 193, but under the Equal Protection Clause of the Fourteenth Amendment a sovereign State may never do so. 2 And it is wholly irrelevant whether the State gives a "plus" or "minus" value to a person's race, whether the discrimination occurs in a decision to hire or fire or promote, or whether the discrimination is called "affirmative action" or by some less euphemistic term. 3
A year ago I stated my understanding of the Constitution in this respect, and I repeat now a little of  what I said then:
"The equal protection standard of the Constitution has one clear and central   meaning -- it absolutely prohibits invidious discrimination by government.  That standard must be met by every State under the Equal Protection Clause of the Fourteenth Amendment. . . .
. . . .
"   Under our Constitution, the government may never act to the detriment of a person solely because of that person's race.  The color of a person's skin and the country of his origin are immutable facts that bear no relation to ability, disadvantage, moral culpability, or any other characteristics of constitutionally permissible interest to government. . . . In short, racial discrimination is by definition invidious discrimination.
"The rule cannot be any different when the persons injured . . . are not members of a racial minority. . . .
. . . .
". . . Most importantly, by making race a relevant criterion, . . . the Government implicitly teaches the public that the apportionment of rewards and penalties can legitimately be made according to race -- rather than according to merit or ability -- and that people can, and perhaps should, view themselves and others in terms of their racial characteristics. . . .
"There are those who think that we need a new Constitution, and their views may someday prevail.  But under the Constitution we have, one practice in which government may never engage is the practice of racism . . . ." Fullilove v. Klutznick, 448 U.S. 448, 523, 525-526, 532 (dissenting opinion) (footnote omitted).
I respectfully dissent.
