OPINION
JUSTICE MARSHALL delivered the opinion of the Court.
In this case we consider whether § 103 (a) of the Federal Mine Safety and Health Act of 1977, 30 U.S.C. § 813 (a) (1976 ed., Supp. III), which authorizes warrantless inspections of underground and surface mines, violates the Fourth Amendment. Concluding that searches conducted pursuant to this provision are reasonable within the meaning of the Fourth Amendment, we reverse the judgment of the District Court for the Eastern District of Wisconsin invalidating the statute.
I
The Federal Mine Safety and Health Act of 1977, 91 Stat. 1290, 30 U.S.C. § 801 et seq.(1976 ed. and Supp. III), requires the Secretary of Labor to develop detailed mandatory health and safety standards to govern the operation of the Nation's mines.  30 U.S.C. § 811 (1976 ed., Supp. III).  1 Section 103 (a) of the Act, 30 U.S.C. § 813 (a) (1976 ed., Supp. III), provides that federal mine inspectors are to inspect underground mines at least four times per year and surface mines at least twice a year to insure compliance with these standards, and to make follow-up inspections to determine whether previously discovered violations have been corrected.  This section also grants mine inspectors "a right of entry to, upon, or through any coal or other mine" 2 and states that "no advance notice of an inspection shall be provided to any person." If a mine operator refuses to allow a warrantless inspection conducted pursuant to § 103 (a), the Secretary is authorized to institute a civil action to obtain injunctive or other appropriate relief.  30 U.S.C. § 818 (a)(1)(C) (1976 ed., Supp. III).
In July 1978, a federal mine inspector attempted to inspect quarries owned by appellee Waukesha Lime and Stone Co. in order to determine whether all 25 safety and health violations uncovered during a prior inspection had been corrected. After the inspector had been on the site for about an hour, Waukesha's president, appellee Douglas Dewey, refused to allow the inspection to continue unless the inspector first obtain a search warrant.  The inspector issued a citation to Waukesha for terminating the inspection, 3 and the Secretary subsequently filed this civil action in the District Court for the Eastern District of Wisconsin seeking to enjoin appellees from refusing to permit warrantless searches of the Waukesha facility.
The District Court granted summary judgment in favor of appellees on the ground that the Fourth Amendment prohibited the warrantless searches of stone quarries authorized by § 103 (a) of the Act.  4 493 F.Supp.963 (1980).  The   Secretary appealed directly to this Court pursuant to 28 U.S.C. § 1252. Because the District Court's ruling invalidated an important provision of the Mine Safety and Health Act, we noted probable jurisdiction.  5 Sub. nom. Marshall v. Dewey, 449 U.S.. 1122 (1981).
II
Our prior cases have established that the  Fourth Amendment's prohibition against unreasonable searches applies to administrative inspections of private commercial property. Marshall v. Barlow's, Inc., 436 U.S. 307 (1978); See v. City of Seattle, 387 U.S. 541 (1967). However, unlike searches of private homes, which generally must be conducted pursuant to a warrant in order to be reasonable under the Fourth Amendment, 6 legislative schemes authorizing warrantless administrative searches of commercial property do not necessarily violate the Fourth Amendment. See, e.g., United States v. Biswell, 406 U.S. 311 (1972); Colonnade Catering Corp. v. United States, 397 U.S. 72 (1970). The greater latitude to conduct warrantless inspections of commercial property reflects the fact that the expectation of privacy that the owner of commercial property enjoys in such property differs significantly from the sanctity accorded an   individual's home, and that this privacy interest may, in certain circumstances, be adequately protected by regulatory schemes authorizing warrantless inspections. United States v. Biswell, supra, at 316.
The interest of the owner of commercial property is not one in being free from any inspections.   Congress has broad authority to regulate commercial enterprises engaged in or affecting interstate commerce, and an inspection program may in some cases be a necessary component of federal regulation. Rather,   the Fourth Amendment protects the interest of the owner of property in being free from unreasonable intrusions onto his property by agents of the government.  Inspections of commercial property may be unreasonable if they are not authorized by law or are unnecessary for the furtherance of federal interests.  Colonnade Catering Corp. v. United States, supra, at 77. Similarly, warrantless inspections of commercial property may be constitutionally objectionable if their occurrence is so random, infrequent, or unpredictable that the owner, for all practical purposes, has no real expectation that his property will from time to time be inspected by government officials.  Marshall v. Barlow's, Inc., supra, at 323. "  Where Congress has authorized inspection but made no rules governing the procedures that inspectors must follow, the Fourth Amendment and its various restrictive rules apply."  Colonnade Corp.  v. United States, supra, at 77. In such cases, a warrant may be necessary to protect the owner from the "unbridled discretion  executive and administrative officers," Marshall v. Barlow's, Inc., supra, at 323, by assuring him that "reasonable legislative or administrative standards for conducting an... inspection are satisfied with respect to a particular ." Camara v. Municipal Court, 387 U.S. 523, 538 (1967).
However, the assurance of regularity provided by a warrant may be unnecessary under certain inspection schemes.  Thus, in Colonnade Corp. v. United States, we recognized that because the alcoholic beverage industry had long been "subject to close supervision and inspection." Congress enjoyed "broad power to design such powers of inspection... as it deems necessary to meet the evils at hand." 397 U.S., at 76-77. Similarly, in United States v. Biswell, this Court concluded that the Gun Control Act of 1968, 18 U.S.C. § 921 et seq., provided a sufficiently comprehensive and predictable inspection scheme that the warrantless inspections mandated under the statute did not violate the Fourth Amendment. After describing the strong federal interest in conducting unannounced, warrantless inspections, we noted:
"It is also plain that inspections for compliance with the Gun Control Act pose only limited threats to the dealer's justifiable expectations of privacy. When a dealer chooses to engage in this pervasively regulated business..., he does so with the knowledge that his records, firearms, and ammunition will be subject to effective inspection....  The dealer is not left to wonder about the purposes of the inspector or the limits of his task." 406 U.S., at 316.I
These decisions make clear that   a warrant may not be constitutionally required when Congress has reasonably determined that warrantless searches are necessary to further a regulatory scheme and the federal regulatory presence is sufficiently comprehensive and defined that the owner of commercial property cannot help but be aware that his property will be subject to periodic inspections undertaken for specific purposes.
We re-emphasized this exception to the warrant requirement most recently in Marshall v. Barlow's, Inc. In that case, we held that absent consent a warrant was constitutionally required in order to conduct administrative inspections under § 8(a) of the Occupational Safety and Health Act of 1970, 29 U.S.C. § 657 (a).  That statute imposes health and safety standards on all businesses engaged in or affecting interstate commerce that have employees, 29 U.S.C. § 652 (5), and authorizes representative of the Secretary to conduct inspections to ensure compliance with the Act.  29 U.S.C. § 657 (a).  However, the Act fails to tailor the scope and frequency of such administrative inspections to the particular health and safety concerns posed by the numerous and varied businesses regulated by the statute.  Instead, the Act flatly authorizes administrative inspections of "any factory, plant, establishment, construction site, or other area, workplace, or environment where work is performed by an employee of an employer" and empowers inspectors conducting such searches to investigate "any such place of employment and all pertinent conditions, structures, machines, apparatus, devices, equipment, and materials therein, and to question privately any such employer, owner, operator, agent, or employee." Ibid. Similarly, the Act does not provide any standards to guide inspectors either in their selection of establishments to be searched or in the exercise of their authority to search.  The statute instead simply provides that such searches must be performed "at... reasonable times, and within reasonable limits and in a reasonable manner." Ibid.
In assessing this regulatory scheme, this Court found that the provision authorizing administrative searches "devolves almost unbridled discretion upon executive and administrative officers, particularly those in the field, as to when to search and whom to search." 436 U.S., at 323. Accordingly, we concluded that a warrant was constitutionally required to assure a nonconsenting owner, who may have little real expectation that his business will be subject to inspection, that the contemplated search was "authorized by statute, and... pursuant to an administrative plan containing specific neutral criteria." Ibid. However, we expressly limited our holding to the inspection provisions of the Occupational Safety and Health Act, noting that the "reasonableness of a warrantless search... will depend upon the specific enforcement needs and privacy guarantees of each statute" and that some statutes "apply only to a single industry, where regulations might  already be so pervasive that a Colonnade-Biswell exception to the warrant requirement could apply." Id., at 321.
Applying this analysis to the case before us, we conclude that the warrantless inspections required by the Mine Safety and Health Act do not offend the Fourth Amendment. As an initial matter, it is undisputed that there is a substantial federal interest in improving the health and safety conditions in the Nation's underground and surface mines.  In enacting the statute, Congress was plainly aware that the mining industry is among the most hazardous in the country and that the poor health and safety record of this industry has significant deleterious effects on interstate commerce.  7 Nor is it seriously contested that Congress in this case could reasonably determine, as it did with respect to the Gun Control Act in Biswell, that a system of warrantless inspections was necessary "if the law is to be properly enforced and inspection made effective." United States v. Biswell, 406 U.S., at 316. In designing an inspection program, Congress expressly recognized that a warrant requirement could significantly frustrate effective enforcement of the Act.  Thus, it provided in § 103 (a) of the Act that "no advance notice of an inspection shall be provided to any person." In explaining this provision, the Senate Report notes:
"n  of the notorious ease with which many safety or health hazards may be concealed if advance warning of inspection is obtained, a warrant requirement would seriously undercut this Act's objectives." S. Rep. No. 95-181, p. 27 (1977).
We see no reason not to defer to this legislative determination.  Here, as in Biswell, Congress could properly conclude: " I]f inspection is to be effective and serve as a credible deterrent, unannounced, even frequent, inspections are essential.  In this context, the prerequisite of a warrant could easily frustrate inspection." 406 U.S., at 316.
Because a warrant requirement clearly might impede the "specific enforcement needs" of the Act, Marshall v. Bardlow's, Inc., 436 U.S., at 321, the only real issue before us is whether the statute's inspection program, in terms of the certainty and regularity of its application, provides a constitutionally adequate substitute for a warrant.  We believe that it does. Unlike the statute at issue in Barlow's the Mine Safety and Health Act applies to industrial activity with a notorious history of serious accidents and unhealthful working conditions.  The Act is specifically tailored to address those concerns, 8 and the regulation of mines it imposes is sufficiently pervasive and defined that the owner of such a facility cannot help but be aware that he "will be subject to effective inspection." United States v. Biswell, supra, at 316.  First, the Act requires inspection of all mines and specifically defines the frequency of inspection. Representatives of the Secretary must inspect all surface mines at least twice annually and all underground mines at least four times annually.  30 U.S.C. § 813 (a) (1976 ed., Supp. III).  Similarly, all mining operations that generate explosive gases must be inspected at irregular 5-, 10-, or 15-day intervals.§ 813 (i). Moreover, the Secretary must conduct follow-up inspections of mines where violations of the Act have previously been discovered, § 813 (a), and must inspect a mine immediately if notified by a miner or a miner's representative that a violation of the Act or an imminently dangerous condition exists.  § 813 (g).  9 Second, the standards with which a mine operator is required to comply are all specifically set forth in the Act or in Title 30 of the Code of Federal Regulations. Indeed, the Act requires that the Secretary inform mine operators of all standards proposed pursuant to the Act.  § 811 (e).  Thus, rather than leaving the frequency and purpose of inspections to the unchecked discretion of Government officers, the Act establishes a predictable  and guided federal regulatory presence.  Like the gun dealer in Biswell, the operator of a mine "is not left to wonder about the purposes of the inspector or the limits of his task." 406 U.S., at 316.
Finally, the Act provides a specific mechanism for accommodating any special privacy concerns that a specific mine operator might have.  The Act prohibits forcible entries, and instead requires the Secretary, when refused entry onto a mining facility, to file a civil action in federal court to obtain an injunction against future refusals.  30 U.S.C. § 818 (a) (1976 ed., Supp. III).  This proceeding provides an adequate forum for the mineowner to show that a specific search is outside the federal regulatory authority, or to seek from the district court an order accommodating any unusual privacy interests that the mineowner might have.  See, e.g., Marshall v. Stoudt's Ferry Preparation Co., 602 F. 2d 589, 594 (CA3 1979) (inspectors ordered to keep confidential mine's trade secrets), cert. denied, 444 U.S. 1015 (1980).
Under these circumstances, it is difficult to see what additional protection a warrant requirement would provide.  The Act itself clearly notifies the operator that inspections will be performed on a regular basis.  Moreover, the Act and the regulations issued pursuant to it inform the operator of what health and safety standards must be met in order to be in compliance with the statute.  The discretion of Government officials to determine what facilities to search and what violations to search for is thus directly curtailed by the regulatory scheme.  In addition, the statute itself embodies a means by which any special Fourth Amendment interests can be accommodated.  Accordingly, we conclude that the general program of warrantless inspections authorized by § 103 (a) of the Act does not violate the Fourth Amendment.
Appellees contend, however, that even if § 103 (a) is constitutional as applied to most segments of the mining industry, it nonetheless violates the Fourth Amendment as applied to authorize warrantless inspections of stone quarries. Appellees' argument essentially tracks the reasoning of the court below.  That court, while expressly acknowledging our decisions in Colonnade and Biswell, found the exception to the warrant requirement defined in those cases to be inapplicable solely because surface quarries, which came under federal regulation in 1966, 10 do "not have a long tradition of government regulation." 493 F. Supp., at 964. To be sure, in Colonnade this Court referred to "the long history of the   regulation of the liquor industry," 397 U.S., at 75, and more recently in Marshall v. Barlow's, Inc., 436 U.S., at 313, we noted that a "long tradition of close government supervision" militated against imposition of a warrant requirement. However, as previously noted, see supra, at 599, it is the pervasiveness and regularity of the federal regulation that ultimately determines whether a warrant is necessary to render an inspection program reasonable under the Fourth Amendment. Thus in United States v. Biswell, this Court upheld the warrantless search provisions of the Gun Control Act of 1968 despite the fact that "ederal regulation of the interstate traffic in firearms is not as deeply rooted in history as is governmental control of the liquor industry." 406 U.S., at 315. Of course, the duration of a particular regulatory scheme will often be an important factor in determining whether it is sufficiently pervasive to make the imposition of a warrant requirement unnecessary.  But if the length of regulation were the only criterion, absurd results would occur.  Under appellees' view, new or emerging industries, including ones such as the nuclear power industry that pose enormous potential safety and health problems, could never be subject to warrantless searches even under the most carefully structured inspection program simply because of the recent vintage of regulation.
The Fourth Amendment's central concept of reasonableness will not tolerate such arbitrary results, and we therefore conclude that warrantless inspection of stone quarries, like similar inspections of other mines covered by the Act, are constitutionally permissible.  The judgment of the District Court is reversed, and the case is remanded for further proceedings consistent with this opinion.
So ordered.
<concur author="STEVENS" text="TRUE">
CONCUR BY: STEVENS; REHNQUIST
JUSTICE STEVENS, concurring.
Like JUSTICE STEWART, I believe the Court erred in Camara v. Municipal Court, 387 U.S. 523, when it overruled Frank v. Maryland, 359 U.S. 360. See post, at 609 (dissenting opinion).  I also share JUSTICE STEWART'S conviction that each of us has a duty to accept the law as it is; disagreement with the holding in a prior case is not a sufficient reason for refusing to honor it.  1 Unlike him, however, I also think the Court erred in Marshall v. Barlow's, Inc., 436 U.S. 307, when it concluded that Camara required it to invalidate the safety inspection program authorized by Congress in the Occupational Safety and Health Act. As I explained in my dissent in that case, neither the longevity of a regulatory program nor a businessman's implied consent to regulations imposed by the Federal Government determines the reasonableness of a congressional judgment that the public interest in occupational health or safety justifies a program of warrantless inspections of commercial premises.  See 436 U.S., at 336-339 (STEVENS, J., dissenting).
JUSTICE STEWART has cogently demonstrated that the rationale of today's decision is much closer to the reasoning in my dissent than to the reasoning in the majority opinion in Barlow's, Inc. Nevertheless, I am not persuaded that the holding in Barlow's, Inc., requires the Court to invalidate the program of mine inspections authorized by the statute we construe today.  2 I accept the Court's explanation of the differences between the scope of these statutes as sufficient to support a different result in this case.  Because I agree with today's majority that the cases are distinguishable, I need not confront   the more difficult question whether Camara represented such a fundamental misreading of the Fourth Amendment that it should be overruled.  I would merely observe that that option is more viable today than when some of the   reasoning that would support it could only be found in dissenting opinions, see 387 U.S., at 546-555 (Clark, J., dissenting); 436 U.S., at 325-339 (STEVENS, J., dissenting), or in the earlier Court opinion in Frank that had itself been overruled in Camara.
<concur author="REHNQUIST" text="TRUE">
JUSTICE REHNQUIST, concurring in the judgment.
Our prior cases hold that, absent consent or exigent circumstances, the government must obtain a warrant to conduct a search or effect an arrest in a private home.  Steagald v. United States, 451 U.S. 204 (1981); Payton v. New York, 445 U.S. 573 (1980). This case, however, involves the search of commercial property. Though the proprietor of commercial property is protected from unreasonable intrusions by governmental agents, the Court correctly notes that "legislative schemes authorizing warrantless administrative searches of commercial property do not necessarily violate the Fourth Amendment." Ante, at 598.
I do not believe, however, that the warrantless entry authorized by Congress in this case, § 103 (a) of the Federal Mine Safety and Health Act of 1977, can be justified by the Court's rationale.  The Court holds that warrantless searches of stone quarries are permitted because the mining industry has been pervasively regulated. But I have no doubt that had Congress enacted a criminal statute similar to that involved here -- authorizing, for example, unannounced warrantless searches of property reasonably thought to house unlawful drug activity -- the warrantless search would be struck down under our existing Fourth Amendment line of decisions.  This Court would invalidate the search despite the fact that Congress has a strong interest in regulating and preventing drug-related crime and has in fact pervasively regulated such crime for a longer period of time than it has regulated mining.
I nonetheless concur in the judgment of the Court.  As far as I can tell, the stone quarry here was largely visible to the naked eye without entrance onto the company's property.  As this Court has held, the "protection accorded by the Fourth Amendment to the people in their 'persons, houses, papers, and effects,' is not extended to the open fields." Hester v. United States, 265 U.S. 57, 59 (1924). I necessarily reserve judgment on the extent to which the Fourth Amendment would prevent the implementation of § 103 (a) of the Act in the absence of the particular fact situation presented here.
<dissent author="STEWART" text="TRUE">
DISSENT BY: STEWART
JUSTICE STEWART, dissenting.
In Frank v. Maryland, 359 U.S. 360, the Court concluded that warrantless administrative inspections are not subject to the restrictions that the Fourth and Fourteenth Amendments place upon conventional searches.  The Frank decision was overruled eight years later in Camara v. Municipal Court, 387 U.S. 523, over   the dissent of three Members of the Court, of whom I was one.  I believed then that the Frank case had been correctly decided, and that warrantless health and safety inspections do not "requir... the safeguards necessary for a search of evidence of criminal acts." Frank, supra, at 372 (dissenting opinion).  1
I must, nonetheless, accept the law as it is, and the law is now established that administrative inspections are searches within the meaning of the Fourth Amendment. As such, warrantless administrative inspections of private property without consent, are, like other searches, constitutionally invalid   except in a few precisely defined circumstances.  Camara, supra, at 528-529. This principle was re-emphasized most recently in Marshall v. Barlow's, Inc., 436 U.S. 307, a case in which the Court carefully and explicitly defined the scope of the exception to the general rule of Camara: a search warrant is required for administrative inspections except in those businesses with "a long tradition of close government supervision, of which any person who chooses to enter such a business must already be aware." 436 U.S., at 313. Because the Court today departs far from this principle, I respectfully dissent.
A
In Camara, the Court announced the general rule that a warrantless inspection of a private dwelling by municipal administrative officers without proper consent is unconstitutional "unless it has been authorized by a valid search warrant." 387 U.S., at 528-529. In the companion case, See v. City of Seattle, 387 U.S. 541, the Court held that the general rule of Camara applies also to administrative inspections of commercial premises.
Until today, exceptions to the general rule have been found in only two cases. In Colonnade Catering Corp. v. United States, 397 U.S. 72, the Court upheld against constitutional attack a statute that authorized warrantless searches of a liquor licensee's premises by Internal Revenue agents.  And in United States v. Biswell, 406 U.S. 311, the Court held that federal Treasury agents could search the premises of a licensed gun dealer to determine whether he was in compliance with the Gun Control Act.
In Marshall v. Barlow's, Inc., supra, the Court made clear that Colonnade and Biswell were only limited exceptions to the general rule of Camara, and that they did not signal a trend away from that rule.  The Court stated that "unless some recognized exception to the warrant requirement applies," warrants for administrative inspections are mandatory.  436 U.S., at 313.
The Barlow's Court could not have been more clear in its explanation for and description of the Colonnade-Biswell exception: "The element that distinguishes these enterprises from ordinary businesses is a long tradition of close government supervision, of which any person who chooses to enter such a business must be aware." 436 U.S., at 313 (emphasis added).  The rationale for the exception was unmistakably that of implied consent.  The Court reasoned that "'he businessman  in effect consents to the restrictions placed upon him.'" 2 (quoting Almeida-Sanchez v. United States, 413 U.S. 266, 271).
Thus, as explained in Barlow's, the Colonnade-Biswell exception is a single and narrow one: the exception applies to businesses that are both pervasively regulated and have a long history of regulation. Today the Court conveniently discards the latter portion of the exception.  3 Yet the very rationale for the exception -- that the "businessman... in effect consents to the restrictions placed upon him" -- disappears without it.  It can hardly be said that a businessman consents to restrictions on his business when those restrictions are not imposed until after he has entered the business. Yet, because it does not overrule Barlow's, that is precisely what the Court says today to many stone quarry operators.  4
Under the peculiar logic of today's opinion, the scope of the Fourth Amendment diminishes as the power of governmental regulation increases.  Yet I would have supposed that the mandates of the Fourth Amendment demand heightened, not lowered, respect, as the intrusive regulatory authority of government expands.
B
Because Barlow's states that the Colonnade-Biswell exception applies only when business is both pervasively regulated and has a long tradition of regulation, it follows that the exception does not apply to stone quarries, and that the Fourth Amendment requires that an inspection that is not consented to can be made only under the authority of a search warrant.  5 Although quarries have existed at least since the beginning of the Republic, the District Court properly noted that it was only in 1966, when Congress added them to the scope of the Mine Safety and Health Act that any became pervasively regulated. 493 F.Supp.963, 965-966.
As I read today's opinion, Congress is left free to avoid the Fourth Amendment industry by industry even though the Court held in Barlow's that Congress could not avoid that Amendment all at once.  6 Congress today can define any industry as dangerous, regulate it substantially, and provide for warrantless inspections of its members.  But, because I do not believe that Congress can, by legislative fiat, rob the members of any industry of their constitutional protection, I dissent from the opinion and judgment of the Court.
