OPINION
JUSTICE REHNQUIST delivered the opinion of the Court.
In this action we are required to reconcile two somewhat intermittent and conflicting lines of authority as to whether a damages action may be brought under 42 U. S. C. § 1983 to redress the allegedly unconstitutional administration of a state tax system.  The United States District Court for the Eastern District of Missouri held that such suits were barred by both 28 U. S. C. § 1341 (Tax Injunction Act) and the principle   of comity, and the Court of Appeals for the Eighth Circuit affirmed by an equally divided court sitting en banc. 1 We granted certiorari to resolve a conflict among the Courts of Appeals, 2 450 U.S. 1039, and we now affirm. Before setting forth the facts, we think that a description of the past and at times divergent decisions of this Court may shed light upon the proper disposition of  this case.
I
This Court, even before the enactment of § 1983, recognized the important and sensitive nature of state tax systems and the need for federal-court restraint when deciding cases that affect such systems.  As Justice Field wrote for the Court shortly before the enactment of § 1983:
"It is upon taxation that the several States chiefly rely to obtain the means to carry on their respective governments, and it is of  the utmost importance to all of them that the modes adopted to enforce the taxes levied should be interfered with as little as possible.  Any delay in the proceedings of the officers, upon whom the duty is devolved of collecting the taxes, may derange the operations of government, and thereby cause serious detriment to the public." Dows v. Chicago, 11 Wall. 108, 110 (1871).
After this Court conclusively decided that federal courts may enjoin state officers from enforcing an unconstitutional state law, Ex parte Young, 209 U.S. 123 (1908), Congress also recognized that the autonomy and fiscal stability of the States survive best when state tax systems are not subject to scrutiny in federal courts.  Thus, in 1937 Congress provided:
"The district courts shall not enjoin, suspend or restrain the assessment, levy or collection of any tax under State law where a plain, speedy and efficient remedy may be had in the courts of such State." 28 U. S. C. § 1341 (hereinafter § 1341 or Act).
This legislation, and the decisions of this Court which preceded it, reflect the fundamental principle of comity between federal courts and state  governments that is essential to "Our Federalism," particularly in the area of state taxation. See, e. g., Matthews v. Rodgers, 284 U.S. 521 (1932); Singer Sewing Machine Co. v. Benedict, 229 U.S. 481 (1913); Boise Artesian Water Co. v. Boise City, 213 U.S. 276 (1909). Even after enactment of § 1341 it was upon this comity that we relied in holding that federal courts, in exercising the discretion that attends requests for equitable relief, may not even render declaratory judgments as to the constitutionality of state tax laws.  Great Lakes Dredge & Dock Co. v. Huffman, 319 U.S. 293 (1943).
Contrasted with this statute and line of cases are our holdings with respect to 42 U. S. C. § 1983. In 1871, shortly after Justice Field wrote of the vital and vulnerable nature of state tax systems, Congress enacted § 1983 with its familiar language:
"Every person who, under color of any statute, ordinance, regulation, custom, or usage, of any State or Territory, subjects, or causes to be subjected, any citizen of the United States or other person within the jurisdiction thereof to the deprivation of any rights, privileges, or immunities secured by the Constitution and laws, shall be liable to the party injured in an action at law, suit in equity, or other proper proceeding for redress."
Obviously § 1983   cut a broad swath.  By its terms it gave a federal cause of action to prisoners, taxpayers, or anyone else who was able to prove that his constitutional or federal rights had been denied by any State.  In addition, the statute made no mention of any requirement that state remedies be exhausted before resort to the federal courts could be had under 28 U. S. C.   § 1343. 3 The combined effect of this newly created federal cause of action and the absence of an express exhaustion requirement was not immediately realized.  It was not until our decision in Monroe v. Pape, 365 U.S. 167 (1961), that § 1983 was held to authorize immediate resort to a federal court whenever state actions allegedly infringed constitutional rights:
"Although the legislation was enacted because of the conditions that existed in the South at that time, it is cast in general language and is as applicable to Illinois as it is to the States whose names  were mentioned over and again in the debates.  It is no answer that the State has a law which if enforced would give relief.  The federal remedy is supplementary to the state remedy, and the latter need not be first sought and refused before the federal one is invoked." 365 U.S., at 183.
The immediacy of federal relief under § 1983 was reemphasized in McNeese v. Board of Education, 373 U.S. 668 (1963), where the Court  stated: "It is immaterial whether  conduct is legal or illegal as a matter of state law. Such claims are entitled to be adjudicated in the federal courts." Id., at 674 (citation and footnote omitted).  And in the unargued per curiam opinion of Wilwording v. Swenson, 404 U.S. 249 (1971), the Court concluded that " were . . . entitled to have their actions treated as claims for relief under the Civil Rights Acts, not subject . . . to exhaustion requirements." Id., at 251. See also Damico v. California, 389 U.S. 416 (1967); Houghton v. Shafer, 392 U.S. 639, 640 (1968); Steffel v. Thompson, 415 U.S. 452, 472-473 (1974).
Thus, we have two divergent lines of authority respecting access to federal courts for adjudication of the constitutionality of state laws.  Both cannot govern this case.  On one hand, § 1341, with its antecedent basis in the comity principle of Matthews v. Rodgers, supra, and Boise Artesian Water Co. v. Boise City, supra, bars at least federal  injunctive challenges to state tax laws. Added to this authority is our decision in Great Lakes Dredge & Dock Co. v. Huffman, supra, holding that declaratory judgments are barred on the basis of comity. On the other hand is the doctrine originating in Monroe v. Pape, supra, that comity does not apply where § 1983 is involved, and that a litigant challenging the constitutionality of any state action may proceed directly to federal court.  With this divergence of views in mind, we turn now to the facts of this case, a § 1983 challenge to the administration of state tax laws which implicates both lines of authority.  We hold that at least as to such actions, which is all we need decide here, the principle of comity controls.
II
Petitioner Fair Assessment in Real Estate Association is a nonprofit corporation formed by taxpayers in St. Louis County (County) to promote equitable enforcement of property tax laws in Missouri.  Petitioners J. David and Lynn F. Cassilly own real property with recent improvements in the County.  Petitioners filed suit under § 1983 alleging that respondents, the County's Tax Assessors, Supervisors, and Director  of Revenue, and three members of the Missouri State   Tax Commission, had deprived them of equal protection and due process of law by unequal taxation of real property.
The complaint focuses on two specific practices by respondents.  First, petitioners allege that County properties with new improvements are assessed at approximately 33 1/3% of their current market value, while properties without new improvements are assessed at approximately 22% of their current market value.  This disparity allegedly results from respondents' failure to reassess old property on a regular basis, the last general reassessment having occurred in 1960.  Second, petitioners allege that property owners who successfully appeal their property assessments, as did the Cassillys in 1977, are specifically targeted for reassessment the next year.
Petitioners have previously sought some relief from respondents' assessments in state proceedings.  In 1975, petitioner David Cassilly and others brought an action in which the State Circuit Court ordered respondent Antonio to reassess all real property in the County.  On direct appeal, however, the Missouri Supreme Court reversed on the ground that the State  Tax Commission, not the Circuit Court, should supervise the reassessment process.  State ex rel. Cassilly v. Riney, 576 S. W. 2d 325 (1979) (en banc).  In 1977, the Cassillys appealed the tax assessed on their home to the County Board of Equalization and received a reduction in assessed value from 33 1/3% to 29%.  When their home was again assessed at 33 1/3% in 1978, the Cassillys once more appealed to the Board of Equalization.  That appeal was pending at the commencement of this litigation.
The Cassillys brought this § 1983 action in federal court seeking actual damages in the amount of overassessments from 1975 to 1979, and punitive damages of $ 75,000 from each respondent.  Petitioner Fair Assessment sought actual damages in the amount of expenses incurred in efforts to obtain equitable property assessments for its members.  As in all other § 1983 actions, the award of such damages would first require a federal-court declaration that respondents, in administering the state tax, violated petitioners' constitutional rights.
III
As indicated by our discussion in Part I, § 1341 and our comity cases have thus far barred federal courts from granting  injunctive and declaratory relief in state tax cases.  Because we decide today that   the principle of comity bars federal courts from granting damages relief in such cases, we do   not decide whether that Act, standing alone, would require such a result. 4 The correctness of the result in this case is demonstrated by an examination of the pre-Act decisions of this Court, the legislative history of the Act, our post-Act decision in the Great Lakes case, and more recent recognition of the principles of federalism.
A
Prior to enactment of § 1341, virtually all federal cases challenging state taxation sought equitable relief. 5 Consequently,   federal-court restraint in state tax matters was based upon the traditional doctrine that courts of equity will stay their hand when remedies at law are plain, adequate, and complete.  See, e. g., Matthews v. Rodgers, 284 U.S. 521 (1932); Singer Sewing Machine Co. v. Benedict, 229 U.S. 481 (1913); Boise Artesian Water Co. v. Boise City, 213 U.S. 276 (1909). Even with this basis in equity law, these cases recognized that the doctrine of equitable restraint was of "notable application," Boise Artesian Water Co., supra, at 281, and carried "peculiar force," Matthews, supra, at 525, in suits challenging the constitutionality of state tax laws.  Such restraint was particularly appropriate because of the delicate balance between the federal authority and state governments, and the concomitant respect that should be accorded state tax laws in federal court.  As the Court in Matthews explained:
"The reason for this guiding principle  is of peculiar force in cases where the suit, like the present one, is brought to enjoin the collection of a state tax in courts of a different, though paramount sovereignty.  The scrupulous regard for the rightful independence of state governments which should at all times actuate the federal courts, and a proper reluctance to interfere by injunction with their fiscal operations, require that such relief should be denied in every case where the asserted federal right may be preserved without it." 284 U.S., at 525. 6
Thus, in 1909 we could state that " examination of the decisions of this court shows that a proper reluctance to interfere by prevention with the fiscal operations of the state governments has caused it to refrain from so doing in all cases where the Federal rights of the persons could otherwise be preserved unimpaired." Boise Artesian Water Co., supra, at 282.
B
This policy of equitable restraint based on notions of comity did not completely clear the federal courts of state tax cases.  Indeed, the Senate Report on the bill that was to become § 1341 referred to " existing practice of the Federal courts in entertaining tax-injunction suits against State officers. . . ." S. Rep. No. 1035, 75th Cong., 1st Sess., 2 (1937).  An examination   of the cases of that era demonstrates, however, that this practice resulted not from a repudiation of the principle of comity, but from federal-court determinations that available state remedies did not adequately protect the federal rights asserted.  See, e. g., Grosjean v. American Press Co., 297 U.S. 233, 242 (1936); Gully v. Interstate Natural Gas Co., 82 F.2d 145 (CA5), cert. denied, 298 U.S. 688 (1936). See also Note, Federal Court Interference with the Assessment and Collection of State Taxes, 59 Harv. L. Rev. 780, 783, n. 13 (1946); Note, The Tax Injunction Act and Suits for Monetary Relief, 46 U. Chi. L. Rev. 736, 744, and nn. 40, 41 (1979).
Congress' response to this practice  of the federal courts -- enactment of § 1341 -- was motivated in large part by comity concerns.  As we said of the Act just last Term:
"The statute 'has its roots in equity practice, in principles of federalism, and in recognition of the imperative need of a State to administer its own fiscal operations.' Tully v. Griffin, Inc., 429 U.S.  73 .  This last consideration was the principal motivating force behind the Act: this legislation was first and foremost a vehicle to limit drastically federal district court jurisdiction to interfere with so important a local concern as the collection of taxes.  81 Cong. Rec. 1415 (1937) (remarks of Sen.   Bone). . . ." Rosewell v. LaSalle National Bank, 450 U.S. 503, 522 (1981) (footnote omitted).
Neither the legislative history of the Act nor that of its precursor, 28 U. S. C. § 1342, suggests that Congress intended that federal-court deference in state tax matters be limited to the actions enumerated in those sections.  See H. R. Rep. No. 1503, 75th Cong., 1st Sess., 1 (1937); 81 Cong. Rec. 1415 (1937) (remarks of Sen. Bone).  Thus, the principle of comity which predated the Act was not restricted by its passage.
C
The post-Act vitality of the comity principle is perhaps best demonstrated by our decision in Great Lakes Dredge & Dock Co. v. Huffman, 319 U.S. 293 (1943). Several Louisiana taxpayers brought an action in Federal District Court seeking a declaratory judgment that the state tax law as applied to them was unconstitutional and void.  Although § 1341 was raised as a possible bar to the suit, as it has been raised in this case, "we  it unnecessary to inquire whether the words of the statute may be so construed as to prohibit a declaration by federal courts concerning the invalidity of a state tax." 319 U.S., at 299. Instead, "we  of the opinion that those considerations which have led federal courts of equity to refuse to enjoin the collection of state taxes, save in exceptional cases,  a like restraint in the use of the declaratory judgment procedure." Ibid.  Those considerations were, of course, principles of federalism:
"'The scrupulous regard for the rightful independence of state governments which should at all times actuate the federal courts, and a proper  reluctance to interfere by injunction with their fiscal operations, require that such relief should be denied in every case where the asserted federal right may be preserved without it.' . . . Interference with state internal economy and administration is inseparable from assaults in the federal courts on the validity of state taxation, and necessarily attends injunctions, interlocutory or final, restraining collection of state taxes.  These are the considerations of moment which have persuaded federal courts of equity to deny relief to the taxpayer. . . ." Id., at 298 (quoting Matthews v. Rodgers, 284 U.S., at 525).
The Court's reliance in Great Lakes upon the necessity of federal-court respect for state taxing schemes demonstrates not only the post-Act vitality of the comity principle, but also its applicability to actions seeking a remedy other than injunctive relief.  The focus was not on the specific form of relief requested, but on the fact that "in every practical sense   to suspend collection of the state taxes until the litigation  ended." 319 U.S., at 299. As will be seen below,  the relief sought in this case would have a similarly disruptive effect.
D
The principle of comity has been recognized and relied upon by this Court in several recent cases dealing with matters other than state taxes.  Its fullest articulation was given in the now familiar language of Younger v. Harris, 401 U.S. 37 (1971), a case in which we held that   traditional principles of equitable restraint bar federal courts from enjoining pending state criminal prosecutions except under extraordinary circumstances:
" underlying reason for restraining courts of equity from interfering with criminal prosecutions is reinforced by an even more vital consideration, the notion of 'comity,' that is, a proper respect for state functions, a recognition of the fact that the entire country is made up of a Union of separate state governments, and a continuance of the belief that the National Government will fare best if the States and their institutions are left free to perform their separate functions in separate ways. . . .   concept  a system in which there is sensitivity to the legitimate interests of both State and National Governments,  and in which the National Government, anxious though it may be to vindicate and protect federal rights and federal interests, always endeavors to do so in ways that will not unduly interfere with the legitimate activities of the States.  It should never be forgotten that this slogan, 'Our Federalism,' born in the early struggling days of our Union of States, occupies a highly important place in our Nation's history and its future." Id., at 44-45 .
The principles of federalism recognized in Younger have not been limited to federal-court interference in state criminal proceedings, but have been extended to some state civil actions.  E. g., Huffman v. Pursue, Ltd., 420 U.S. 592 (1975). Although these modern expressions of comity have been limited in their application to federal cases which seek to enjoin state judicial proceedings, a limitation which we do not abandon here, they illustrate the principles that bar petitioners' suit under § 1983.  As we said in Rosewell, supra, "the reasons supporting federal noninterference   taxation] are just as compelling today as they were in 1937." 450 U.S., at 527.  As will be seen in the next part, petitioners' § 1983 action would be no less disruptive of Missouri's tax system than would the historic equitable efforts to enjoin the collection of taxes, efforts which were early held barred by considerations of comity.
IV
In arguments primarily addressed to the applicability of the Act, petitioners contend that damages actions are inherently less disruptive of state tax systems than injunctions or declaratory judgments, and therefore should not be barred by prior decisions of this Court.  Petitioners emphasize that their § 1983 claim seeks recovery from individual state officers, not from state coffers, and that the doctrine of qualified immunity will protect such officers' good-faith actions and will thus avoid chilling their administration of the Missouri tax scheme.
We disagree.  Petitioners will not recover damages under § 1983 unless a district court first determines that respondents' administration of the County tax system violated petitioners' constitutional rights. In effect,   the district court must first enter a declaratory judgment like that barred in Great Lakes.  We are convinced that such a determination would be  fully as intrusive as the equitable actions that are barred by principles of comity. 7 Moreover, the intrusiveness of such § 1983 actions would be exacerbated by the nonexhaustion doctrine of Monroe v. Pape, 365 U.S. 167 (1961) . Taxpayers such as petitioners would be able to invoke federal judgments without first permitting the State to rectify any alleged impropriety.
In addition to the intrusiveness of the judgment, the very maintenance of the suit itself would intrude on the enforcement of the state scheme.  As the District Court in this case stated:
"To allow such suits would cause disruption of the states' revenue collection systems equal to that caused by anticipatory relief.  State tax collection officials could be summoned into federal court to defend their assessments against claims for refunds as well as prayers for punitive damages, merely on the assertion that the tax collected was willfully and maliciously discriminatory against a certain type of property.  Allowance of such claims would result in this Court being a source of appellate review of all state property tax classifications." 478 F.Supp. 1231, 1233-1234 (1979).
This intrusion, although undoubtedly present in every § 1983 claim, is particularly highlighted by the facts of this case.  Defendants are not one or two isolated administrators, but virtually every key tax official in St. Louis County.  They include the County Executive, the Director of Revenue, the Tax Assessor, and three supervising members of the State Tax Commission.  In addition, the actions  challenged in the complaint -- unequal assessment of new and old property and retaliatory assessment of property belonging to those who successfully appeal to the Board of Equalization -- may well be the result of policies or practicalities beyond the control of any individual officer.  For example, failure annually to reassess old property may well result from a practical allocation of limited resources.  In addition, according to respondents' attorney at oral argument, Missouri law requires that all property, including property which belongs to those who successfully appeal to the Board of Equalization, be assessed at 33 1/3% of market value.  Thus, a judicial determination of official liability for the acts complained of, even though necessarily based upon a finding of bad faith, would have an undeniable chilling effect upon the actions of all County officers governed by the same practicalities or required to implement the same policies.  There is little doubt that such officials, faced with the prospect of personal liability to numerous taxpayers, not to mention the assessment of attorney's fees under 42 U. S. C. § 1988, would promptly cease the conduct found  to have infringed petitioners' constitutional rights, whether or not those officials were acting in good faith.  In short, petitioners' action would "in every practical sense operate to suspend collection of the state taxes . . . ," Great Lakes, 319 U.S., at 299, a form of federal-court interference previously rejected by this Court on principles of federalism.
V
This case is therefore controlled by principles articulated even before enactment of § 1983 and followed in later decisions such as Matthews and Great Lakes. The recovery of damages under the Civil Rights Act first requires a "declaration" or determination of the unconstitutionality of a state tax scheme that would halt its operation.  And damages actions, no less than actions for an injunction, would hale state officers into federal court every time a taxpayer alleged the requisite elements of a § 1983 claim.  We consider such interference to be contrary to " scrupulous regard for the rightful independence of state governments which should at all times actuate the federal courts." Matthews, 284 U.S., at 525.
Therefore, despite the ready access to  federal courts provided by Monroe and its progeny, we hold that taxpayers are barred by the principle of comity from asserting § 1983 actions against the validity of state tax systems in federal courts.  Such taxpayers must seek protection of their federal rights by state remedies, provided of course that those remedies are plain, adequate, and complete, 8 and may ultimately seek review of the state decisions in this Court.  See Huffman v. Pursue, Inc., 420 U.S., at 605; Matthews v. Rodgers, supra, at 526.
The adequacy of available Missouri remedies is not at issue in this case.  The District Court expressly found "that  have means to rectify what they consider an unjust situation through the state's own processes," 478 F.Supp., at 1234, and petitioners do not contest this finding. In addition, the Missouri Supreme Court has expressly held that   plaintiffs such as petitioners may assert a § 1983 claim in state court.  See, e. g., Stafford v. Muster, 582 S. W. 2d 670, 681 (1979); Shapiro v. Columbia Union National Bank & Trust Co., 576 S. W. 2d 310 (1978).
Accordingly, the judgment of the Court of Appeals is
Affirmed.
<concur author="BRENNAN" text="TRUE">
CONCUR BY: BRENNAN
JUSTICE BRENNAN, with whom JUSTICE MARSHALL, JUSTICE STEVENS, and JUSTICE O'CONNOR join, concurring in the judgment.
I agree that the judgment of the District Court dismissing petitioners' complaint should be affirmed.  But I arrive at that conclusion by a different route for I cannot agree that this case, and the jurisdiction of the federal courts over an action for damages brought pursuant to express congressional authority, is to be governed by applying a "principle  of comity" grounded solely on this Court's notion of an appropriate division of responsibility between the federal and state judicial systems.  Subject only to constitutional constraints, it is exclusively Congress' responsibility to determine the jurisdiction of the federal courts.  Federal courts have historically acted within their assigned jurisdiction in accordance with established principles respecting the prudent exercise of equitable power.  But this practice lends no credence to the authority which the Court asserts today to renounce jurisdiction over an entire class of damages actions brought pursuant to 42 U. S. C. § 1983.
I
Petitioners J. David Cassilly and Lynn F. Cassilly are owners of real property in St. Louis County, Mo.  Petitioner Fair Assessment in Real Estate Association, Inc. (FAIR), is a not-for-profit corporation formed by real estate taxpayers in St. Louis County to promote equitable enforcement of the real property tax laws of the State of Missouri.  Respondents are public officials responsible for the execution of the real property tax laws in St. Louis County. On July 2, 1979, petitioners filed this action in the United States District  Court for the Eastern District of Missouri, pursuant to 42 U. S. C. § 1983, contending that respondents had willfully, intentionally, and systematically deprived them of their rights to due process and equal protection under the Fourteenth Amendment through inequitable property tax assessments. Petitioners alleged that respondents assessed properties with recent improvements at roughly 33 1/3% of current true market value, and older homes on the average of 22 1/2% of current market value.  Further they alleged that respondents targeted for reassessment all real property upon which a successful appeal had been prosecuted in the prior year.  The Cassillys sought compensatory damages measured by the difference between the taxes which they paid in several years prior to the action, and the amount they contended would have been owing had they been assessed at the average rate.  They sought further compensation for expenses they had incurred in their sporadic attempts to remedy the alleged unlawful assessment by resort to the state administrative mechanisms, and substantial punitive damages against each respondent.  FAIR sought money damages in the amount of expenses incurred in the course of its efforts to obtain equitable enforcement of the state real property tax law.
The District Court dismissed the complaint, holding that the action was barred by the Tax Injunction Act and principles of comity. 1 478 F.Supp. 1231. The judgment of the District Court was affirmed by an equally divided vote of the Court of Appeals for the Eighth Circuit sitting en banc.  622 F.2d 415.
II
The opinion for the Court sets the "principle of comity" against the strong policies of 42 U. S. C. § 1983 favoring a federal forum to vindicate deprivations of federal rights, and resolves  the issue in favor of comity. In my view, there is no conflict here that could conceivably justify the unprecedented step of renouncing our assigned jurisdiction.  Indeed the very cases relied on by the Court in its attempt to find some historic source for its sweeping view of the "principle of comity," reveal the limits of that principle as a source of judicial authority.
As employed by the Court in several recent opinions, and in the opinion of the Court today, the "principle of comity" refers to the "proper respect for state functions" that organs of the National Government, most particularly the federal courts, are expected to demonstrate in the exercise of their own legitimate powers.  See Younger v. Harris, 401 U.S. 37, 44-45 (1971). So employed, the "principle of comity" is nothing more than an encapsulation of policy, albeit policy with roots in the Constitution and our federal system of government. 2
While the "principle of comity" may be a source of judicial policy, it is emphatically no source of judicial power to renounce jurisdiction. 3 The application of the comity principle    has thus been limited to a relatively narrow class of cases: Only where a federal court is asked to employ its historic powers as a court of equity, and is called upon to decide whether to exercise the broadest and potentially most intrusive form of judicial authority, does "comity" have an established and substantial role in informing the exercise of the court's discretion. 4 There is little room for the "principle of comity" in actions at law where, apart from matters of administration, judicial discretion is at a minimum. 5 Surely no   judicial power to fashion novel doctrine concerning the jurisdiction of the federal courts is to be found in the Constitution itself, which provides that the judicial power "shall be vested in one supreme Court and in such inferior Courts as the Congress may from time to time ordain and establish." U.S. Const., Art. III, § 1.
The Court relies primarily on Great Lakes Dredge & Dock Co. v. Huffman, 319 U.S. 293 (1943), to support its sweeping view of the comity principle.  Great Lakes presented the question whether the Tax Injunction  Act could be "so construed as to prohibit a declaration by federal courts concerning the invalidity of a state tax." Id., at 299. We found no need to address that question, holding instead that "those considerations which have led federal courts of equity to refuse to enjoin the collection of state taxes, save in exceptional cases, require a like restraint in the use of the declaratory judgment procedure." Ibid.  From this the Court today reasons:
"Petitioners will not recover damages under § 1983 unless a district court first determines that respondents' administration of the County tax system violated petitioners' constitutional rights. In effect, the district court must first enter a declaratory judgment like that barred in Great Lakes.  We are convinced that such a determination would be fully as intrusive as the equitable actions that are barred by principles of comity." Ante, at 113.
Great Lakes does not support this reasoning.  Our opinion there suggests nothing intrusive in bringing a claim involving a question of state taxation to a federal forum. Dismissal of the suit was permissible only because the claim for declaratory relief  was designed to gain "an adjudication of rights in anticipation of their threatened infringement." 6 Such a suit, precisely like one for an injunction, would "in every practical respect operate to suspend collection of the state taxes until the litigation is ended." 7 319 U.S., at 299. No similar concern is raised by the present case. 8
The jurisdiction of the federal courts over cases such as the present one reflects a considered congressional judgment.  As the Court acknowledges, § 1983 "gave a federal cause of action to prisoners, taxpayers, or anyone else who was able to prove that his constitutional or federal rights had been denied by any State." Ante, at 103-104.  In addition, 42 U. S. C. § 1981 provides that " persons . . . shall be subject to like punishment, pains, penalties,   taxes, licenses, and exactions of every kind, and to no other."  9 (Emphasis added.) Congress has expressly provided jurisdiction over such claims in the district courts. 10 28 U. S. C. § 1343; see Zwickler v. Koota, 389 U.S. 241, 245-248 (1967). 11 Where Congress has granted the federal courts jurisdiction, we are not free to repudiate that authority. Ibid.; 12   England v. Louisiana State Board of Medical Examiners, 375 U.S. 411 (1964). In England we said:
"There are fundamental objections to any conclusion that a litigant who has properly invoked the jurisdiction of a Federal District Court to consider federal constitutional claims can be compelled, without his consent and through no fault of his own, to accept instead a state court's determination of those claims.  Such a result would be at war with the unqualified terms in which Congress, pursuant to constitutional authorization, has conferred special categories of jurisdiction upon the federal courts, and with the principle that 'When a Federal court is properly appealed to in a case over which it has by law jurisdiction, it is its duty to take such jurisdiction . . . .  The right of a party plaintiff  to choose a Federal court where there is a choice cannot be properly denied.' Willcox v. Consolidated Gas Co., 212 U.S. 19, 40." Id., at 415 (footnote omitted).
The power to control the jurisdiction of the lower federal courts is assigned by the Constitution to Congress, not to this Court.  In its haste to rid the federal courts of a class of cases that it thinks unfit for federal scrutiny, the Court today  departs from this fundamental precept.
III
Subject of course to constitutional constraints, the jurisdiction of the lower federal courts is subject to the plenary control of Congress.  Kline v. Burke Construction Co., 260 U.S. 226, 233-234 (1922); Cary v. Curtis, 3 How. 236, 245 (1845). As pointed out supra, at 123-124, and n. 11, this case appears to fall squarely within the jurisdictional grant of 28 U. S. C. § 1343, and perhaps of 28 U. S. C. § 1331 as well.  The question, then, is whether Congress has anywhere contradicted that presumptive grant of judicial authority.   Only one possible source of that contradiction having been suggested, I begin my analysis of the jurisdictional question with the Tax Injunction Act itself.
A
Title 28 U. S. C. § 1341 provides:
"The district courts shall not enjoin, suspend or restrain the assessment, levy or collection of any tax under State law where a plain, speedy and efficient remedy may be had in the courts of such State."
If a suit brought under § 1983 for damages is to come within the prohibition of the Act, it would seem necessary to demonstrate that such a suit is one to "enjoin, suspend or restrain the assessment, levy or collection" of a state tax. Respondents argue that the terms "suspend" and "   restrain" are words of ordinary usage, and that they are sufficiently broad to bring the present suit for damages, which respondents assert will "chill" state tax collection, within the proscriptions of the Act.  In my view, the legislative history of the Act, and the case law background against which it was written, directly refute the suggestion that Congress intended those words to have the encompassing meaning respondents suggest. 13
B
The federal courts have for most of their history been scrupulous in the exercise of their equitable powers to avoid unnecessary interference with the administration of state taxation. In Dows v. Chicago, 11 Wall. 108 (1871), Justice Field noted:
"It is upon taxation that the several States chiefly rely to obtain the means to carry on their respective governments, and it is of the utmost importance to all of them that the modes adopted to enforce the taxes levied should be interfered with as little as possible.  Any delay in the proceedings of the officers, upon whom the duty is devolved of collecting the taxes, may derange the operations of government, and thereby cause serious detriment to the public." Id ., at 110.
Thus it was early held that the illegality or unconstitutionality of a state or municipal tax would not in itself provide the foundation for equitable relief in the federal courts.  Id., at 109; see Boise Artesian Water Co. v. Boise City, 213 U.S. 276, 282-285 (1909). 14 Consistent with equity practice, the federal courts would not enjoin the collection  of state taxes, despite the possible unconstitutionality of the exaction, where there existed a "plain, adequate and complete remedy at law." Singer Sewing Machine Co. v. Benedict, 229 U.S. 481, 488 (1913).
Although this Court, in the many cases preceding passage of the Tax Injunction Act, affirmed the need for restraint in the exercise of the power of equity in state tax cases, it never intimated that the federal forum was inappropriate where the complaint sought only a remedy in damages, and the case was otherwise   within federal jurisdiction.  Indeed, the Court repeatedly   stated the contrary.  See id., at 486; Henrietta Mills v. Rutherford County, 281 U.S. 121, 127 (1930); Chicago, B. & Q. R. Co. v. Osborne, 265 U.S. 14, 16 (1924) . For example, in Henrietta Mills, a unanimous Court concluded that there was no basis for equitable relief, relying on the fact that there would have been "an adequate remedy at law, not only in the state court, but also in the Federal court if petitioner had been able to show a violation of the Federal Constitution." 281 U.S., at 127 (emphasis added).  And indeed damages actions for wrongful collection of taxes, brought against both the taxing authority and the taxing officials, were not unknown to the lower federal courts.  See, e. g., Tyler v. Dane County, 289 F. 843 (WD Wis. 1923);  International Paper Co. v. Burrill, 260 F. 664 (Mass. 1919). In Matthews v. Rodgers, 284 U.S. 521 (1932), only five years prior to the enactment of the Tax Injunction Act, we summarized the federal practice:
"Whenever the question has been presented, this Court has uniformly held that the mere illegality or unconstitutionality of a state or municipal tax is not in itself a ground for equitable relief in the courts of the United States.  If the remedy at law is plain, adequate, and complete, the aggrieved party is left to that remedy in the state courts, . . . or to his suit at law in the federal courts if the essential elements of federal jurisdiction are present." Id., at 525-526 (citations omitted; emphasis added).
In sum, while the federal courts, prior to the passage of the Tax Injunction Act, would frequently refrain from exercising their equitable powers in state tax cases, damages actions were an established fixture of federal jurisdiction.
C
Although in 1932 Matthews v. Rodgers stated a broad principle of restraint in the exercise of federal equity powers, ibid., the rule was soon honored more in breach than in observance.  Purporting to construe these equitable principles in state tax cases, the federal courts had become "free and easy with injunctions." 15 Thus federal remedial practice   began to contrast sharply with the limits on state remedial authority, with the result that the federal court became the preferred forum for those who could properly invoke its jurisdiction: principally large out-of-state corporations. The legislative history of the Tax Injunction Act makes plain Congress'   concern with this disparity, and its effect on local finances.  In introducing the bill that ultimately became the Tax Injunction Act, Senator Bone explained:
"The existing practice of the Federal courts to entertain tax-injunction suits  it possible for foreign corporations  to withhold from a State and its governmental subdivisions taxes in such vast amounts and for such long periods as to disrupt State and county finances, and thus make it possible for such corporations to determine for themselves the amount of taxes they will pay." 81 Cong. Rec. 1416 (1937).
The Senate Report highlighted the nature of the problem being addressed:
" discrimination between citizens of the State and foreign corporations doing business in such State has been the cause of much controversy.  The controversies arising out of the use of the injunctive process in State tax cases would be eliminated by the passage of this bill." S. Rep. No. 1035, 75th Cong., 1st Sess., 2 (1937) (emphasis added). 16
Not only does the legislative focus belie respondents' suggestion that Congress believed the federal courts not competent to handle matters involving state taxation, but the legislative history addresses directly respondents'   principal contention that Congress intended the phrase "enjoin, suspend or restrain" to bar actions for monetary relief from the federal courts. The Report of the House Judiciary Committee appends a "Legal Brief" submitted to the Committee with respect to the proposed bill, which states:
"You ask for some assistance on the question of whether the existence of an adequate remedy at law or in equity in the State courts, such as a tax-refund action, would prevent a foreign corporation pursuing the same remedy in the Federal court.  In answer,  will say that there might be circumstances under which the Federal courts would have no jurisdiction of such actions; for instance, where the refund action could be brought only against the State, or against the State officers under such circumstances as to amount to a suit against the State.  Under the eleventh amendment to the Federal Constitution, of course, suits against the State,  or suits which are in effect suits against the State, are not maintainable in the Federal courts.
"But if the refund action is permitted by State legislation or rules of decision against counties or county officers, and the money refunded has not yet reached the State exchequer, such actions, if maintainable in the State courts, could likewise be pursued in the Federal courts if the requisite elements of Federal jurisdiction existed." H. R. Rep. No. 1503, 75th Cong., 1st Sess., 2-3 (1937). 17
The conclusion is thus inescapable that Congress did not intend to bar actions such as this one from the federal courts.  On the contrary, Congress clearly intended that the federal forum would continue to remain available in state tax cases for monetary relief despite passage of the Tax Injunction Act.
D
As understood and applied by this Court prior to the passage of the Tax Injunction Act, 18 and by Congress in enacting the Tax Injunction Act, the "principle of comity" which demanded respect for state tax administration, extended precisely as far as was necessary to ensure that the federal courts not become party to the abuse of their equity power.  Congress intended that federal authority be exercised with the same restraint that the States applied in the administration of their own tax system, and thus to restore the parity between the two judicial systems.  But there is absolutely no support in either the cases of this Court, or in Congress' action, for total abdication of federal power in this field.  It is thus entirely clear that as a jurisdictional matter, the federal courts have jurisdiction over claims seeking monetary relief arising from unconstitutional  state taxation.
IV
Petitioners argue that since their federal claim is brought pursuant to 42 U. S. C. § 1983, it was not necessary to exhaust administrative remedies before commencing this action.
In First National Bank of Greeley v. Board of Commissioners of Weld County, 264 U.S. 450 (1924), we held that before a litigant complaining of alleged overassessment of taxes may bring a damages action grounded on the Constitution or statutes of the United States, that litigant must fully exhaust any administrative remedies afforded by the State. 19 In Weld County, plaintiff in error brought its action under federal question jurisdiction to recover the amount of taxes levied for the years 1913 and 1914.  It alleged that the taxes were assessed and collected in contravention of the Due Process and Equal Protection Clauses of the Fourteenth Amendment, and a federal statute 20 setting forth certain limitations  on state and local taxation in regard to national banks. 21 The Court paused before addressing plaintiff in error's substantive claim:
"We are met at the threshold of our consideration of the case with the contention that the plaintiff did not exhaust its remedies before the administrative boards and consequently cannot be heard by a judicial tribunal to assert the invalidity of the tax." Id., at 453.
Because the plaintiff in error had not exhausted its state administrative remedies, the Court declined to consider the "question whether the tax  vulnerable to the challenge in respect of its validity upon any or all of the grounds set forth. . . ." 22 Id., at 456.
Although the Court did not elaborate on the underpinnings of that holding, it seems clear that it was grounded on the considerations of sound judicial administration 23 and parity between the state and federal judicial systems that had historically guided the federal equity courts and were later embodied in the Tax Injunction Act. Those principles, and Weld County, govern the treatment of actions at law involving state tax matters.
Petitioners seek to avoid the  reach of Weld County by arguing that this case is to be controlled by the general rule stated in McNeese v. Board of Education, 373 U.S. 668 (1963), that in cases brought pursuant to 42 U. S. C. § 1983, resort to state administrative remedies is not a precondition to federal suit. As a factual matter of course, it is difficult to distinguish Weld County, which raised factual allegations that closely parallel those of the complaint at issue here. 24
More importantly, while this Court has repeatedly reaffirmed that exhaustion of administrative remedies is not a precondition to a suit brought under the Civil Rights Acts, see, e. g., Ellis v. Dyson, 421 U.S. 426, 432-433 (1975); Steffel v. Thompson, 415 U.S. 452, 472-473 (1974); Carter v. Stanton, 405 U.S. 669, 670-671 (1972); Wilwording v. Swenson, 404 U.S. 249, 251 (1971) (per curiam); King v. Smith, 392 U.S. 309, 312, n. 4 (1968); Damico v. California, 389 U.S. 416, 416-417 (1967) (per curiam), that conclusion rests firmly on the understanding that such was the intention of Congress in enacting § 1983. Where Congress has provided that in a particular class of cases the federal courts should refrain from hearing suits brought under § 1983 until administrative remedies have been exhausted, see, e. g., 42 U. S. C. § 1997e (1976 ed., Supp. IV), there is no doubt that the federal courts are bound by that limitation.  Cf.  Preiser v. Rodriguez, 411 U.S. 475, 489-490 (1973). My  view has always been that displacement of § 1983 remedies can only "be justified by a clear statement of congressional intent, or, at the very least, by the presence of the most persuasive considerations of policy." 25 Id., at 518 (BRENNAN, J., dissenting).  Surely a somewhat lesser showing is required where, as here, we are concerned not with the displacement of the § 1983 remedy, but with the deferral of federal court consideration pending exhaustion of the state administrative process.  Where the obligation to require exhaustion of administrative remedies may be fairly understood from congressional action, or is in accord with congressional policy, not only is § 1983 no bar, but the federal courts should be alert to further those policies.
We plainly have sufficient evidence of such  congressional policy here.  As noted above, in enacting the Tax Injunction Act, Congress sought to assure that the federal courts would remain open to suits for monetary relief in state tax cases "if the requisite elements of Federal jurisdiction existed." H. R. Rep. No. 1503, 75th Cong., 1st Sess., 3 (1937). 26 In 1937 the requirement of exhaustion of state administrative remedies was certainly a mandatory precondition to suit, and in that sense a "jurisdictional prerequisite." Nevertheless, we need not reach the conclusion that Congress intended by enactment of the Tax Injunction Act to freeze the then-operative jurisdictional practice of the federal courts in order to recognize that the administrative-exhaustion requirement is entirely consonant with the principal purposes of the Act: to provide assurance that federal courts exercise at least the same restraint in dealing with questions of state tax administration as the courts of the State that levied the tax.  Where administrative remedies are a precondition to suit for monetary relief in state court, absent some substantial consideration compelling a contrary result in a particular case, those remedies should be deemed a precondition to suit in federal court as well. 27
V
Petitioners sought damages arising from what they alleged to be unconstitutional assessments in four tax years.  In 1974 and 1975, they failed to pursue in any manner the administrative remedies provided by the State.  In 1977 they appealed their assessment to the St. Louis County Board of Equalization and gained substantial relief.  Although they claim here that the relief granted by the Board of Equalization failed to bring their assessment up to constitutional standards, they failed to appeal the Board's ruling for that year to the State Tax Commission.  An appeal of their 1978 assessment was pending before the State Tax Commission at the time they brought this action.
Because petitioners failed to exhaust their administrative remedies in each tax year for which they seek damages, their complaint was properly dismissed.  To the extent today's judgment affirms that dismissal, I concur.
