OPINION
JUSTICE POWELL delivered the opinion of the court.
This case presents the question whether a state university, which makes its facilities generally available for the activities of registered student groups, may close its facilities to a registered student group desiring to use the facilities for religious worship and religious discussion.
I
It is the stated policy of the University of Missouri at Kansas City 1 to encourage the activities of student organizations.  The University officially recognizes over 100 student groups.  It routinely provides University facilities for the meetings of registered organizations.  Students pay an activity fee of $ 41 per semester (1978-1979) to help defray the costs to the University.
From 1973 until 1977 a registered religious group named Cornerstone regularly sought and received permission to conduct its meetings in University facilities. 2 In 1977, however, the University informed the group that it could no longer meet in University buildings.  The exclusion was based on a regulation, adopted by the Board of Curators in 1972, that prohibits the use of University buildings or grounds "for purposes of religious worship or religious teaching." 3
Eleven University students, all members of Cornerstone, brought suit to challenge the regulation in the Federal District Court for the Western District of Missouri. 4 They alleged that the University's discrimination against religious activity and discussion violated their rights to free exercise of religion, equal protection, and freedom of speech under the First and Fourteenth Amendments to the Constitution of the United States.
Upon cross-motions for summary judgment, the District Court upheld the challenged regulation. Chess v. Widmar, 480 F.Supp. 907 (1979). It found the regulation not only justified, but required, by the Establishment Clause of the Federal Constitution.   Id., at 916. Under Tilton v. Richardson, 403 U.S. 672 (1971), the court reasoned, the State could not provide facilities for religious use without giving prohibited support to an institution of religion. 480 F.Supp., at 915-916. The District Court rejected the argument that the University could not discriminate against religious speech on the basis of its content.  It found religious speech entitled to less protection than other types of expression.  Id., at 918.
The Court of Appeals for the Eighth Circuit reversed.  Chess v. Widmar, 635 F.2d 1310 (1980). Rejecting the analysis of the District Court, it viewed the University regulation as a content-based discrimination against religious speech, for which it could find no compelling justification.  Id., at 1315-1320. The court held that the Establishment Clause does not bar a policy of equal access, in which facilities are open to groups and speakers of all kinds.  Id., at 1317. According to the Court of Appeals, the "primary effect" of such a policy would not be to advance religion, but rather to further the neutral purpose of developing students' "'social and cultural awareness as well as  intellectual curiosity.'" Ibid. (quoting from the University bulletin's description of the student activities program, reprinted in id., at 1312, n. 1).
We granted certiorari.  450 U.S. 909. We now affirm.
II
Through its policy of accommodating their meetings, the University has created a forum generally open for use by student groups.  Having done so, the University has assumed an obligation to justify its discriminations and exclusions under applicable constitutional norms. 5 The Constitution forbids a State to enforce certain exclusions from a forum generally open to the public, even if it was not required to create the forum in the first place.  See, e. g., Madison Joint School District v. Wisconsin Employment Relations Comm'n, 429 U.S. 167, 175, and n. 8 (1976) (although a State may conduct business in private session, " the State has opened a forum for direct citizen involvement," exclusions bear a heavy burden of justification);   Southeastern Promotions, Ltd. v. Conrad, 420 U.S. 546, 555-559 (1975) (because municipal theater was a public forum, city could not exclude a production without satisfying constitutional safeguards applicable to prior restraints).
The University's institutional mission, which it describes as providing a "secular education" to its students, Brief for Petitioners 44, does not exempt its actions from constitutional scrutiny.  With respect to persons entitled to be there, our cases leave no doubt that the First Amendment   rights of speech and association extend to the campuses of state universities. See, e. g., Healy v. James, 408 U.S. 169, 180 (1972); Tinker v. Des Moines Independent School District, 393 U.S. 503, 506 (1969); Shelton v. Tucker, 364 U.S. 479, 487 (1960).
Here UMKC has discriminated against student groups and speakers based on their desire to use a generally open forum to engage in religious worship and discussion.  These are forms of speech and association protected by the First Amendment. See, e. g., Heffron v. International Society for Krishna Consciousness, Inc., 452 U.S. 640 (1981); Niemotko v. Maryland, 340 U.S. 268 (1951); Saia v. New York, 334 U.S. 558 (1948) . 6 In order to justify discriminatory exclusion from a public forum based on the religious content of a group's intended speech, the University must therefore satisfy the standard of review appropriate to content-based exclusions. It must show that its regulation is necessary to serve a compelling state interest and that it is narrowly drawn to achieve that end. See Carey v. Brown, 447 U.S. 455, 461, 464-465 (1980). 7
III
In this case the University claims a compelling interest in maintaining strict separation of church and State.  It derives this interest from the " Establishment Clauses" of both the Federal and Missouri Constitutions.
A
The University first argues that it cannot offer its facilities to religious groups and speakers on the terms available to other groups without violating the Establishment Clause of the Constitution of the United States. 8 We agree that the interest of the University in complying with its constitutional obligations may be characterized as compelling.  It does not follow, however,  that an "equal access" policy would be incompatible with this Court's Establishment Clause cases.  Those cases hold that   a policy will not offend the Establishment Clause if it can pass a three-pronged test: "First, the  must have a secular legislative purpose; second, its principal or primary effect must be one that neither advances nor inhibits religion . . . ; finally, the  must not foster 'an excessive government entanglement with religion.'" Lemon v. Kurtzman, 403 U.S. 602, 612-613 (1971). See Committee for Public Education v. Regan, 444 U.S. 646, 653 (1980); Roemer v. Maryland Public Works Bd., 426 U.S. 736, 748 (1976).
In this case two prongs of the test are clearly met.  Both the District Court and the Court of Appeals held that an open-forum policy, including nondiscrimination against religious speech, 9 would have a secular purpose 10 and would avoid entanglement with religion. 11 But the District Court concluded, and the University argues here, that   allowing religious groups to share the limited public forum would have the "primary effect" of advancing religion. 12
The University's argument misconceives the nature of this case.  The question is not whether the creation of a religious forum would violate the Establishment Clause.  The University has opened its facilities for use by student groups, and the question is whether it can now exclude groups because of the content of their speech.  See Healy v. James, 408 U.S. 169 (1972). 13 In this context we are unpersuaded that the primary effect of the public forum, open to all forms of discourse, would be to advance religion.
We are not oblivious to the range of an open forum's likely effects.  It is possible -- perhaps even foreseeable -- that religious groups will benefit from access to University facilities.  But this Court has explained that   a religious organization's enjoyment of merely "incidental" benefits does not violate the prohibition against the "primary advancement" of religion. Committee for Public Education v. Nyquist, 413 U.S. 756, 771 (1973); see, e. g., Roemer v. Maryland Public Works Bd., 426 U.S. 736 (1976); Hunt v. McNair, 413 U.S. 734 (1973); McGowan v. Maryland, 366 U.S. 420, 422 (1961).
We are satisfied that any religious benefits of an open forum at UMKC would be "incidental" within the meaning of our cases.  Two factors are especially relevant.
First, an open forum in a public university does not confer any imprimatur of state approval on religious sects or practices.  As the Court of Appeals quite aptly stated, such a policy "would no more commit the University . . . to religious goals" than it is "now committed to the goals of the Students for a Democratic Society, the Young Socialist Alliance," or any other group eligible to use its facilities.  635 F.2d, at 1317. 14
Second, the forum is available to a broad class of nonreligious as well as religious speakers; there are over 100 recognized student groups at UMKC.  The provision of benefits to so broad a spectrum of groups is an important index of secular effect.  See, e. g., Wolman v. Walter, 433 U.S. 229, 240-241 (1977); Committee for Public Education v. Nyquist, supra, at 781-782, and n. 38. If the Establishment Clause barred the extension of general benefits to religious groups, "a church could not be protected by the police and fire departments, or have its public sidewalk kept in repair." Roemer v. Maryland Public Works Bd., supra, at 747 (plurality opinion); quoted in Committee for Public Education v. Regan, 444 U.S., at 658, n. 6. 15   At least   in the absence of empirical evidence that religious groups will dominate UMKC's open forum, we agree with the Court of Appeals that the advancement of religion would not be the forum's "primary effect."
B
Arguing that the State of Missouri has gone further than the Federal Constitution in proscribing indirect state support for religion, 16 the University claims a compelling interest in complying with the applicable provisions of the Missouri Constitution. 17
The Missouri courts have not ruled whether a general policy of accommodating student groups, applied equally to those wishing to gather to engage in religious and nonreligious speech, would offend the State Constitution.  We need not, however, determine how the Missouri courts would decide this issue.  It is also unnecessary for us to decide whether, under the Supremacy Clause, 18 a state interest, derived from its own constitution, could ever outweigh free   speech interests protected by the First Amendment. We limit our holding to the case before us.
On one hand, respondents' First Amendment rights are entitled to special constitutional solicitude.  Our cases have required the most exacting scrutiny in cases in which a State undertakes to regulate speech on the basis of its content.  See, e. g., Carey v. Brown, 447 U.S. 455 (1980); Police Dept. of Chicago v. Mosley, 408 U.S. 92 (1972). On the other hand, the state interest asserted here -- in achieving greater separation of church and State than is already ensured under the Establishment Clause of the Federal Constitution -- is limited by the Free Exercise Clause and in this case by the Free Speech Clause as well.  In this constitutional context, we are unable to recognize the State's interest as sufficiently "compelling" to justify content-based discrimination against respondents' religious speech.
IV
Our holding in this case in no way undermines the capacity of the University to establish reasonable time, place, and manner regulations. 19 Nor do we question the right of the University to make academic judgments as to how best to allocate scarce resources or "to determine for itself on academic grounds who may teach, what may be taught, how it shall be taught, and who may be admitted to study." Sweezy v. New Hampshire, 354 U.S. 234, 263 (1957) (Frankfurter, J., concurring in result); see University of California Regents v. Bakke, 438 U.S. 265, 312-313 (1978) (opinion of POWELL, J., announcing the judgment of the Court). 20 Finally, we affirm the continuing validity of cases, e. g., Healy v. James, 408 U.S., at 188-189, that recognize a university's right to exclude even First Amendment activities that violate reasonable campus rules or substantially interfere with the opportunity of other students to obtain an education.
The basis for our decision is narrow.  Having created a forum generally open to student groups, the University seeks to enforce a content-based exclusion of religious speech.  Its exclusionary policy violates the fundamental principle that a state regulation of speech should be content-neutral, and the University is unable to justify this violation under applicable constitutional standards.
For this reason, the decision of the Court of Appeals is
Affirmed.
<concur author="STEVENS" text="TRUE">
CONCUR BY: STEVENS
JUSTICE STEVENS, concurring in the judgment.
As the Court recognizes, every university must "make academic judgments as to how best to allocate scarce resources," ante, at 276.  The Court appears to hold, however, that those judgments must "serve a compelling state interest" whenever they are based, even in part, on the content of speech.  Ante, at 269-270.  This conclusion apparently flows from the Court's suggestion that a student activities program -- from which the public may be excluded, ante, at 267-268, n. 5 -- must be managed as though it were a "public forum." 1 In my opinion, the use of the terms "compelling state interest" and "public forum" to analyze the question presented in this case may needlessly undermine the academic freedom of public universities.
Today most major colleges and universities are operated by public authority. Nevertheless, their facilities are not open to the public in the same way that streets and parks are.  University facilities -- private or public -- are maintained primarily for the benefit of the student body and the faculty.  In performing their learning and teaching missions, the managers of a university routinely make countless decisions based on the content of communicative materials.  They select books for inclusion in the library, they hire professors on the basis of their academic philosophies, they select courses for inclusion in the curriculum, and they reward scholars for what they have written.  In addition, in encouraging students to participate in extracurricular activities, they necessarily make decisions concerning the content of those activities.
Because every university's resources are limited, an educational institution must routinely make decisions concerning the use of the time and space that is available for extracurricular activities.  In my judgment, it is both necessary and appropriate for those decisions to evaluate the content of a proposed student activity.  I should think it obvious, for example, that if two groups of 25 students requested the use of a room at a particular time -- one to view Mickey Mouse cartoons and the other to rehearse an amateur performance of Hamlet -- the First Amendment would not require that the room be reserved for the group that submitted its application first.  Nor do I see why a university should have to establish a "compelling state interest" to defend its decision to permit one group to use the facility and not the other.  In my opinion, a university should be allowed to decide for itself whether a program that illuminates the genius of Walt Disney should be given precedence over one that may duplicate material adequately covered in the classroom. Judgments of this kind should be made by academicians, not by federal judges, 2 and their standards for decision should not be encumbered with ambiguous phrases like "compelling state interest." 3
Thus, I do not subscribe to the view that a public university has no greater interest in the content of student activities than the police chief has in the content of a soapbox oration on Capitol Hill.  A university legitimately may regard some subjects as more relevant to its educational mission than others.  But the university, like the police officer, may not allow its agreement or disagreement with the viewpoint of a particular speaker to determine whether access to a forum will be granted.  If a state university is to deny recognition to a student organization -- or is to give it a lesser right to use school facilities than other student groups -- it must have a valid reason for doing so.  Healy v. James, 408 U.S. 169. 4
In this case I agree with the Court that the University has not established a sufficient justification for its refusal to allow the Cornerstone group to engage in religious worship on the campus. The primary reason advanced for the discriminatory treatment is the University's fear of violating the Establishment Clause.  But since the record discloses no danger that the University will appear to sponsor any particular religion, and since student participation in the Cornerstone meetings is entirely voluntary, the Court properly concludes that the University's fear is groundless.  With that justification put to one side, the University has not met the burden that is imposed on it by Healy.
Nor does the University's reliance on the Establishment Clause of the Missouri State Constitution provide a sufficient justification for the discriminatory treatment in this case. 5 As I have said, I believe that the University may exercise a measure of control over the agenda for student use of school facilities, preferring some subjects over others, without needing to identify so-called "compelling state interests." Quite obviously, however, the University could not allow a group of Republicans or Presbyterians to meet while denying Democrats or Mormons the same privilege. 6 It seems apparent that the policy under attack would allow groups of young philosophers to meet to discuss their skepticism that a Supreme Being exists, or a group of political scientists to meet to debate the accuracy of the view that religion is the "opium of the people." If school facilities may be used to discuss anticlerical doctrine, it seems to me that comparable use by a group desiring to express a belief in God must also be permitted.  The fact that their expression of faith includes ceremonial conduct is not, in my opinion, a sufficient reason for suppressing their discussion entirely.
Accordingly, although I do not endorse the Court's reasoning, I concur in its judgment.
<dissent author="WHITE_B" text="TRUE">
DISSENT BY: WHITE
JUSTICE WHITE, dissenting.
In affirming the decision of the Court of Appeals, the majority rejects petitioners' argument that the Establishment Clause of the Constitution prohibits the use of university buildings for religious purposes.  A state university may permit its property to be used for purely religious services without violating the First and Fourteenth Amendments.  With this I agree.  See Committee for Public Education v. Nyquist, 413 U.S. 756, 813 (1973) (WHITE, J., dissenting); Lemon v. Kurtzman, 403 U.S. 602, 661 (1971) (opinion of WHITE, J.).  The Establishment Clause, however, sets limits only on what the State may do with respect to religious organizations; it does not establish what the State is required to do.  I have long argued that Establishment Clause limits on state action which incidentally aids religion are not as strict as the Court has held.  The step from the permissible to the necessary, however, is a long one.  In my view, just as there is room under the Religion Clauses for state policies that may have some beneficial effect on religion, there is also room for state policies that may incidentally burden religion. In other words, I believe the States to be a good deal freer to formulate policies that affect religion in divergent ways than does the majority.  See Sherbert v. Verner, 374 U.S. 398, 422-423 (1963) (Harlan, J., dissenting).  The majority's position will inevitably lead to those contradictions and tensions between the Establishment and Free Exercise Clauses warned against by Justice Stewart in Sherbert v. Verner, supra, at 416.
The University regulation at issue here provides in pertinent part:
"No University buildings or grounds (except chapels as herein provided) may be used for purposes of religious worship or religious teaching by either student or nonstudent groups.  Student congregations of local churches or of recognized denominations or sects, although not technically recognized campus groups, may use the facilities . . . under the same regulations that apply to recognized campus organizations, provided that no University facilities may   be used for purposes of religious worship or religious teaching."
Although there may be instances in which it would be difficult to determine whether a religious group used university facilities for "worship" or "religious teaching," rather than for secular ends, this is not such a case.  The regulation was applied to respondents' religious group, Cornerstone, only after the group explicitly informed the University that it sought access to the facilities for the purpose of offering prayer, singing hymns, reading scripture, and teaching biblical principles.  Cornerstone described their meetings as follows: "Although these meetings would not appear to a casual observer to correspond precisely to a traditional worship service, there is no doubt that worship is an important part of the general atmosphere." Chess v. Widmar, 480 F.Supp. 907, 910 (1979). 1 The issue here is only whether the University   regulation as applied and interpreted in this case is impermissible under the Federal Constitution.  If it is impermissible, it is because it runs afoul of either the Free Speech or the Free Exercise Clause of the First Amendment.
A large part of respondents' argument, accepted by the court below and accepted by the majority, is founded on the proposition that because religious worship uses speech, it is protected by the Free Speech Clause of the First Amendment. 2 Not only is it protected, they argue, but religious worship qua speech is not different from any other variety of protected speech as a matter of constitutional principle.  I believe that this proposition is plainly wrong.  Were it right, the Religion Clauses would be emptied of any independent meaning in circumstances in which religious practice took the form of speech.
Although the majority describes this argument as "novel," ante, at 269, n. 6, I believe it to be clearly supported by our previous cases.  Just last Term, the Court found it sufficiently obvious that the Establishment Clause prohibited a State from posting a copy of the Ten Commandments on the classroom wall that a statute requiring such a posting was summarily struck down.  Stone v. Graham, 449 U.S. 39 (1980). That case necessarily presumed that the State could not ignore the religious content of the written message, nor was it permitted to treat that content as it would, or must, treat other -- secular -- messages under the First Amendment's protection of speech.  Similarly, the Court's decisions prohibiting prayer in the public schools rest on a content-based distinction between varieties of speech: as a speech act, apart from its content, a prayer is indistinguishable from a biology lesson.  See Abington School District v. Schempp, 374 U.S. 203 (1963); Engel v. Vitale, 370 U.S. 421 (1962). Operation of the Free Exercise Clause is equally dependent, in certain circumstances, on recognition of a content-based distinction between religious and secular speech.  Thus, in Torcaso v. Watkins, 367 U.S. 488 (1961), the Court struck down, as violative of the Free Exercise Clause, a state requirement that made a declaration of belief in God a condition of state employment.  A declaration is again a speech act, but it was the content of the speech that brought the case within the scope of the Free Exercise Clause.
If the majority were right that no distinction may be drawn between verbal acts of worship and other verbal acts, all of these cases would have to be reconsidered.  Although I agree that the line may be difficult to draw in many cases, surely the majority cannot seriously suggest that no line may ever be drawn. 3 If that were the case, the majority would have to uphold the University's right to offer a class entitled "Sunday Mass." Under the majority's view, such a class would be -- as a matter of constitutional principle -- indistinguishable from a class entitled "The History of the Catholic Church." 4
There may be instances in which a State's attempt to disentangle itself from religious worship would intrude upon secular speech about religion. In such a case, the State's action would be subject to challenge under the Free Speech Clause of the First Amendment. This is not such a case. This case involves religious worship only; the fact that that worship is accomplished through speech does not add anything to respondents' argument. That argument must rely upon the claim that the State's action impermissibly interferes with the free exercise of respondents' religious practices.  Although this is a close question, I conclude that it does not.
Plausible analogies on either side suggest themselves.  Respondents argue, and the majority agrees, that by permitting any student group to use its facilities for communicative purposes other than religious worship, the University has created a "public forum." Ante, at 267-268.  With ample support, they argue that the State may not make content-based distinctions as to what groups may use, or what messages may be conveyed in, such a forum.  See Police Department of Chicago v. Mosley, 408 U.S. 92 (1972);  Cox v. Louisiana, 379 U.S. 536 (1965). The right of the religious to nondiscriminatory access to the public forum is well established.  See Niemotko v. Maryland, 340 U.S. 268 (1951); Murdock v. Pennsylvania, 319 U.S. 105 (1943). Moreover, it is clear that there are bounds beyond which the University could not go in enforcing its regulation: I do not suppose it could prevent students from saying grace before meals in the school cafeteria, or prevent distribution of religious literature on campus. 5
Petitioners, on the other hand,  argue that allowing use of their facilities for religious worship is constitutionally indistinguishable from directly subsidizing such religious services: It would " a specifically religious activity in an otherwise substantially secular setting." Hunt v. McNair, 413 U.S. 734, 743 (1973). They argue that the fact that secular student groups are entitled to the in-kind subsidy at issue here does not establish that a religious group is entitled to the same subsidy.  They could convincingly argue, for example, that a state university that pays for basketballs for the basketball team is not thereby required to pay for Bibles for a group like Cornerstone. 6
A third analogy suggests itself, one that falls between these two extremes.  There are a variety of state policies which incidentally benefit religion that this Court has upheld without implying that they were constitutionally required of the State.  See Board of Education v. Allen, 392 U.S. 236 (1968) (state loan of textbooks to parochial school students); Zorach v. Clauson, 343 U.S. 306 (1952) (release of students from public schools, during school hours, to perform religious activities away from the school grounds); Everson v. Board of Education, 330 U.S. 1 (1947) (state provision of transportation to parochial school students).  Provision of university facilities on a uniform basis to all student groups is not very different from provision of textbooks or transportation.  From this perspective the issue is not whether the State must, or must not, open its facilities to religious worship; rather, it is whether the State may choose not to do so.
Each of these analogies is persuasive.  Because they lead to different results, however, they are of limited help in reaching a decision here.  They also demonstrate the difficulty in reconciling the various interests expressed in the Religion Clauses.  In my view, therefore, resolution of this case is best achieved by returning to first principles.  This requires an assessment of the burden on respondents' ability freely to exercise their religious beliefs and practices and of the State's interest in enforcing its regulation.
Respondents complain that compliance with the regulation would require them to meet "about a block and a half" from campus under conditions less comfortable than those previously available on campus. 7 I view this burden on free exercise   as minimal.  Because the burden is minimal, the State need do no more than demonstrate that the regulation furthers some permissible state end.  The State's interest in avoiding claims that it is financing or otherwise supporting religious worship -- in maintaining a definitive separation between church and State -- is such an end.  That the State truly does mean to act toward this end is amply supported by the treatment of religion in the State Constitution. 8 Thus, I believe the interest of the State is sufficiently strong to justify the imposition of the minimal burden on respondents' ability freely to exercise their religious beliefs.
On these facts, therefore, I cannot find that the application of the regulation to prevent Cornerstone from holding religious worship services in University facilities violates the  First and Fourteenth Amendments.  I would not hold as the majority does that if a university permits students and others to use its property for secular purposes, it must also furnish facilities to religious groups for the purposes of worship and the practice of their religion. Accordingly, I would reverse the judgment of the Court of Appeals.
