OPINION
In June 1980, New York State established a two percent tax on the gross receipts of oil companies limited to their revenues derived from their activities within the State.  N. Y. Tax Law § 182, ch. 272 (McKinney Supp. 1980).  Desiring that the tax actually be borne by the oil companies, its intended objects, rather than by consumers, the New York   Legislature prohibited the companies from passing on the cost of the tax in the prices of their products sold in New York.  Ibid.  The passthrough prohibition was sufficiently vital that the law provided that if the prohibition was "adjudged by any court of competent jurisdiction to be invalid and after exhaustion of all further judicial review" the tax would cease to exist on the 10th day thereafter.  Ch. 272, § 12(a).  All tax liabilities accrued to that day, however, would remain in full force and effect.  It was also provided that the tax would self-destruct 10 days after any court "issues any order, judgment, injunction or stay prohibiting" the enforcement of the antipassthrough provision.  Ch. 272, § 12(b).
The appellees are 10 oil companies subject to the tax who instituted suit to enjoin the antipassthrough provision, claiming that it was in conflict with and therefore pre-empted by federal price control authority under the Emergency Petroleum Allocation Act (EPAA), 15 U. S. C. § 751 et seq.  The District Court agreed with that position and enjoined enforcement of the provision.  499 F.Supp. 888 (NDNY 1980). The Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit held that appellate consideration of the pre-emption issue was a matter for the Temporary Emergency Court of Appeals (TECA).  639 F.2d 912,  cert. denied sub nom. Tully v. New England Petroleum Corp., 452 U.S. 967 (1981). That court, in turn, affirmed the District Court's decision, but noted that the federal statute would expire by its own terms in September 1981, and that expiration of the Act "will signal the end of federal concern in this area." 653 F.2d 497, 502 (1981).
New York State tax officials then appealed TECA's decision to this Court.  We now vacate the judgment and remand the case to TECA for reconsideration in light of the expiration of federal price control authority. 1
The normal rule in a civil case is that we judge it in accordance with the law as it exists at the time of our decision.  Kremens v. Bartley, 431 U.S. 119, 129 (1977);Fusari v. Steinberg, 419 U.S. 379, 387 (1975). The expiration date for the federal statute has come and gone; the only barrier to the enforcement of the antipassthrough provision no longer exists.  However, the injunction entered by the District Court and affirmed by TECA did not terminate on October 1, 1981, the date that TECA acknowledged to signal the end of federal concern in the area.  Thus, in its present form the declaration of the invalidity of the antipassthrough provision and the accompanying injunction against enforcing it have no current validity and must be set aside. 2
Ordinarily, the determination that the law has so changed as to eliminate a conflict between federal and state law would conclude the dispute. In this case, however, both parties insist that an important controversy continues over the appellees' legal authority to pass through to consumers taxes that were paid or accrued prior to October 1.  They also suggest that the validity of the New York tax itself is in question because of the "self-destruct" provisions of the statute.  These matters are relevant to this litigation because, being predicated on the declaration of invalidity of the New York statute with respect to the period prior to October 1, 1981, they may constitute "remaining live issues  supply the constitutional requirement of a case or controversy." Powell v. McCormack, 395 U.S. 486, 497 (1969). Now   that the operation of the passthrough prohibition is not blocked by conflicting federal law, a question arises as to the degree to which the resolution of these secondary issues will turn on the earlier finding of pre-emption, even if correct.  Is there, for example, any federal interest that would prevent the State of New York from now enforcing its law so as to prevent appellees from passing through taxes which accrued prior to October 1?
We express no opinion on the ultimate merit of these contentions.  We leave to TECA, a court intimately familiar with the intricacies of federal   energy regulation, the task of deciding in the first instance what effect, if any, the expiration of federal price authority has on these collateral matters. 3
Regardless of what TECA may decide with respect to those issues, it is clear that the judgment and injunction are not appropriately framed for this Court to review.  Therefore, the judgment of the Court of Appeals is vacated, and the case is remanded to TECA for reconsideration in  light of the expiration of federal price control authority under the EPAA.
So ordered.
JUSTICE BRENNAN would set the case for oral argument.
DISSENT BY: STEVENS
JUSTICE STEVENS, dissenting.
Federal price control authority under the Emergency Petroleum Allocation Act, 15 U. S. C. § 751 et seq., pre-empted the authority of the State of New York to control prices of petroleum products.  In this case, the Temporary Emergency Court of Appeals held that the antipassthrough provision of N. Y. Tax Law § 182 (McKinney Supp. 1980) was "clearly a price control measure" 1 that could not be enforced while the federal authority was effective.  The court recognized, however, that the federal bar would expire on September 30, 1981, and that the import of its decision was limited to the period prior to that date. 2
In its appeal to this Court, the New York State Tax Commission does not ask us to consider any question concerning the meaning or enforceability of its laws during the period after the expiration of federal price control authority. Such questions are not our business and are not presented by this litigation. Rather, the appeal by the Commission presents the question whether the then-existing federal price control authority prevented the State   from fixing the economic burden of a tax imposed upon companies that sell petroleum products. 3 The Temporary Emergency Court of Appeals   correctly answered that question.  Since the subsequent expiration of the federal authority has no bearing on that question, I simply would affirm its judgment. 4
