OPINION
JUSTICE POWELL delivered the opinion of the Court.
The question for our decision is whether a refusal by an American longshoremen's union to unload cargoes shipped from the Soviet Union is an illegal secondary boycott under § 8(b)(4) of the National Labor Relations Act (NLRA), 61 Stat. 141, as amended, 29 U. S. C. § 158(b)(4).
I
On January 9, 1980, Thomas Gleason, president of the International Longshoremen's Association (ILA), ordered ILA members to stop handling cargoes arriving from or destined for the Soviet Union.  Gleason took this action to protest the Russian invasion of Afghanistan. 1 In obedience to the order, longshoremen up and down the east and gulf coasts refused to service ships carrying Russian cargoes. 2
Respondent Allied International, Inc. (Allied), is an American company that imports Russian wood products for resale in the United States. Allied contracts with Waterman Steamship Lines (Waterman), an American corporation operating ships of United States registry, for shipment of the wood from Leningrad to ports on the east and gulf coasts of the United States. Waterman, in turn, employs the stevedoring company of John T. Clark & Son of Boston, Inc. (Clark), to unload its ships docking in Boston.  Under the terms of the collective-bargaining agreement between ILA Local 799 and the Boston Shipping Association, of which Clark is a member, Clark obtains its longshoring employees through the union hiring hall. 3
As a result of the boycott, Allied's shipments were disrupted completely. Ultimately, Allied was forced to renegotiate its Russian contracts, substantially reducing its purchases and jeopardizing its ability to supply its own customers.  App. 24a-28a.  On March 31, 1980, after union officials informed Allied that ILA members would continue to refuse to unload any Russian cargo, Allied brought this action in the United States District Court for the District of Massachusetts.  Claiming that the boycott violated the prohibition against secondary boycotts in § 8(b)(4) of the NLRA,  29 U. S. C. § 158(b)(4), 4 Allied sued for damages under § 303 of the Labor Management Relations Act, 1947 (LMRA), 61 Stat. 158, as amended, 29 U. S. C. § 187, 5 which creates a private damages remedy for the victims of secondary boycotts. 6 At about the same time, Allied filed an unfair labor practice charge with the National Labor Relations Board under § 10(b) of the NLRA, 29 U. S. C. § 160(b). 7
Finding that Allied had not alleged a violation of § 8(b)(4)(B), the District Court dismissed Allied's complaint.  492 F.Supp. 334 (1980). The court characterized the ILA boycott as a purely political, primary boycott of Russian goods. 8 So described, the boycott was not within the scope of § 8(b)(4). 9
The Court of Appeals for the First Circuit reversed the dismissal of Allied's complaint and remanded for further proceedings.  640 F.2d 1368 (1981). As an initial matter, and in agreement with the District Court, the court found that the effects of the ILA boycott were "in commerce" within the meaning of the NLRA as interpreted by a long line of decisions of this Court. 10 The court held further that the ILA boycott, as described in Allied's averments, was within § 8(b)(4)'s prohibition of secondary boycotts, despite its political purpose, and that resort to such behavior was not protected activity under the First Amendment. 11
We granted certiorari to determine the coverage of the secondary boycott provisions of the NLRA in this setting.  454 U.S. 814 (1981). We affirm.
II
Our starting point in a case of this kind must be the language of the statute.  By its exact terms the secondary boycott provisions of § 8(b)(4)(B) of the NLRA would appear to be aimed precisely at the sort of activity alleged in this case.  Section 8(b)(4)(B) governs activities designed to influence individuals employed by "any person engaged in commerce or in an industry affecting commerce." 12 Certainly Allied, Waterman, and Clark were engaged "in commerce," and Allied alleges that the effect of the ILA action was to obstruct commerce up and down the east and gulf coasts. 13 Just as plainly, it would appear that the ILA boycott fell within § 8(b)(4)(B)'s prohibition of secondary boycotts. Allied alleges that by inducing members of the union to refuse to handle Russian cargoes, the ILA boycott was designed to force Allied, Waterman, and Clark "to cease doing business" with one another and "to cease using, selling,  handling, transporting, or otherwise dealing in" Russian products.
Notwithstanding the language of the statute, petitioners argue that their conduct was not "in commerce" as our decisions have interpreted that term.  They argue as well that even if the ILA activity were within the jurisdictional scope of § 8(b)(4), the boycott was not the sort of secondary boycott Congress intended to proscribe.  We address these arguments in turn.
A
In a line of cases beginning with Benz v. Compania Naviera Hidalgo, 353 U.S. 138 (1957), 14 the Court has held that the "maritime operations of foreign-flag ships employing alien seamen are not in 'commerce'" as this term is used in the NLRA. 15 Thus, in Benz the Court held that picketing by an American union in support of striking foreign crew-members of a foreign-flag vessel was not governed by the Act.  Relying upon the legislative history of the NLRA and the longstanding principles of comity in the treatment of foreign vessels, the Court held that the labor laws were not designed "to resolve labor disputes between nationals of other countries operating ships under foreign laws." Id., at 143. 16
More recently in Windward Shipping, Ltd. v. American Radio Assn., 415 U.S. 104 (1974), and American Radio Assn. v. Mobile S.S. Assn., 419 U.S. 215 (1974), the Court again identified the limits to the jurisdictional reach of the labor laws in the context of foreign vessels. In Windward, American maritime unions picketed foreign-flag vessels to call attention to the lower wages paid to foreign seamen and to the adverse effect of these lower wages on American seamen. Finding that the picketing was designed to raise the operating costs of foreign vessels and that it had "more than a negligible impact on the 'maritime operations' of these foreign ships," 415 U.S., at 114, the Court held that the union's activity was not "in commerce" under the labor laws.  Id., at 115.
Facing the identical activity by maritime unions in Mobile, the Court reached the same conclusion.  The complainants in Mobile were not foreign shipowners, as in Windward, but parties feeling the secondary effects of the union's protest -- American stevedoring companies and an American shipper. The Court held that this change in complaining parties did not alter the jurisdictional reach of the Act.  The Benz line of cases did not permit "a bifurcated view of the effects of a single group of pickets at a single site." Mobile, supra, at 222. The refusal of American stevedores to cross the picket lines "was a crucial part of the mechanism by which the maritime operations of the foreign ships were to be affected." 419 U.S., at 224.
Applying the principles developed in these cases to the circumstances here, we find that the ILA's activity was "in commerce" and within the scope of the NLRA. Unlike the situation in every case from Benz through Mobile, the ILA's refusal to unload Allied's shipments in no way affected the maritime operations of foreign ships. The boycott here did not aim at altering the terms of employment of foreign crews on foreign-flag vessels. It did not seek to extend the bill of rights developed for American workers and American employers to foreign seamen and foreign shipowners.  The longstanding tradition of restraint in applying the laws of this country to ships of a foreign country -- a tradition that lies at the heart of Benz and every subsequent decision -- therefore is irrelevant to this case. 17 As the Court of Appeals explained, this drama was "played out by an all-American cast." 640 F.2d, at 1374. " American union has ordered its members not to work for an American stevedore which had contracted to service an American ship carrying goods of an American importer." Id., at 1372. In these circumstances, the clear language of the statute needs no further explication.
B
The secondary boycott provisions in § 8(b)(4)(B) prohibit a union from inducing employees to refuse to handle goods with the object of forcing any person to cease doing business with any other person. 18 By its terms the statutory prohibition applies to the undisputed facts of this case.  The ILA has no dispute with Allied, Waterman, or Clark.  It does not seek any labor objective from these employers. 19 Its sole complaint is with the foreign and military policy of the Soviet Union.  As understandable and even commendable as the ILA's ultimate objectives may be, the certain effect of its action is to impose a heavy burden on neutral employers.  And it is just such a burden, as well as widening of industrial strife, that the secondary boycott provisions were designed to prevent. 20 As the NLRB explained in ruling upon the Regional Director's complaint against the ILA:
"It is difficult to imagine a situation that falls more squarely within the scope of Section 8(b)(4) than the one before us today.  Here, the Union's sole dispute is with the USSR over its invasion of Afghanistan.  Allied, Waterman, and Clark have nothing to do with this dispute.  Yet the Union's actions in furtherance of its disagreement with Soviet foreign policy have brought direct economic pressure on all three parties and have resulted in a substantial cessation of business.  Thus, the conduct alleged in this case is precisely the type of conduct Congress intended the National Labor Relations Act to regulate." International Longshoremen's Assn., AFL-CIO (Allied International, Inc.), 257 N. L. R. B. 1075, 1078-1079 (1981) (footnote omitted).
Nor can it be argued that the ILA's action was outside of the prohibition on secondary boycotts because its object was not to halt business between Allied, Clark, and Waterman with respect to Russian goods, but simply to free ILA members from the morally repugnant duty of handling Russian goods.  Such an argument misses the point.  Undoubtedly many secondary boycotts have the object of freeing employees from handling goods from an objectionable source.  Nonetheless,   when a purely secondary boycott "reasonably can be expected to threaten neutral parties with ruin or substantial loss," NLRB v. Retail Store Employees, 447 U.S. 607, 614 (1980), the pressure on secondary parties must be viewed as at least one of the objects of the boycott or the statutory prohibition would be rendered meaningless. 21 The union must take responsibility for the "foreseeable consequences" of its conduct.  Id., at 614, n. 9; see NLRB v. Operating Engineers, 400 U.S. 297, 304-305 (1971). Here the union was fully aware of the losses it was inflicting upon Allied.  It is undisputed that Allied officials endeavored to persuade ILA leaders to allow it to fulfill its Russian contracts.  On the basis of the record before it, the Court of Appeals correctly concluded that Allied had alleged a violation of § 8(b)(4). 22
Neither is it a defense to the application of § 8(b)(4) that the reason for the ILA boycott was not a labor dispute with a primary employer but a political dispute with a foreign nation. Section 8(b)(4) contains no such limitation.  In the plainest of language it prohibits "forcing . . . any person to cease . . . handling . . . the products of any other producer . . . or to cease doing business with any other person." The legislative history does not indicate that political disputes should be excluded from the scope of § 8(b)(4). The prohibition was drafted broadly to protect neutral parties, "the helpless victims of quarrels that do not concern them at all." H. R. Rep. No. 245, 80th Cong., 1st Sess., 23 (1947).  Despite criticism from President Truman as well as from some legislators that the secondary boycott provision was too sweeping, the Congress refused to narrow its scope.  Recognizing that " boycotts take many forms," id., at 24, Congress intended its prohibition to reach broadly. 23
We would create a large and undefinable exception to the statute if we accepted the argument that "political" boycotts are exempt from the secondary boycott provision.  The distinction between labor and political objectives would be difficult to draw in many cases.  In the absence of any limiting language in the statute or legislative history, we find no reason to conclude that Congress intended such a potentially expansive exception to a statutory provision purposefully drafted in broadest terms.
We agree with the Court of Appeals that it is "more rather than less objectionable that a national labor union has chosen to marshal against neutral parties the considerable powers derived by its locals and itself under the federal labor laws in aid of a random political objective far removed from what has traditionally been thought to be the realm of legitimate union activity." 640 F.2d, at 1378. In light of the statutory language and purpose, we decline to create a far-reaching exemption from the statutory provision for "political" secondary boycotts. 24
III
Application of § 8(b)(4) to the ILA's activity in this case will not infringe upon the First Amendment rights of the ILA and its members.  We have consistently rejected the claim that   secondary picketing by labor unions in violation of § 8(b)(4) is protected activity under the First Amendment. See, e. g., NLRB v. Retail Store Employees, supra, at 616; American Radio Assn. v. Mobile S.S. Assn., 419 U.S., at 229-231. Cf.  NLRB v. Fruit Packers, 377 U.S. 58, 63 (1964). 25 It would seem even clearer that conduct designed not to communicate but to coerce merits still less consideration under the First Amendment. 26 The labor laws reflect a careful balancing of interests.  See NLRB v. Retail Store Employees,   447 U.S., at 617 (BLACKMUN, J., concurring).  There are many ways in which a union and its individual members may express their opposition to Russian foreign policy without infringing upon the rights of others.
The judgment of the Court of Appeals is
Affirmed.
