OPINION
JUSTICE MARSHALL delivered the opinion of the Court.
New York has established an Emergency Assistance Program that receives substantial federal funding under Title IV-A of the Social Security Act (Act), 42 U. S. C. § 603(a)(5).  The program excludes recipients of Aid to Families with Dependent Children (AFDC) from emergency assistance in the form of cash.  It also excludes public assistance recipients (including AFDC recipients) from reimbursement for lost or stolen grants, even though it provides such reimbursement to other public benefit recipients. The United States Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit held that New York's treatment of AFDC recipients is not inconsistent with the federal Act and regulations but violates the Equal Protection Clause.  Because we conclude that the New York law is invalid under the Act, we affirm without reaching the equal protection issue.
I
Appellee Jeanne Bacon has two minor children and depends entirely on an AFDC grant to support her family.  On June 1, 1977, while she was shopping, her wallet and food stamps were stolen.  She promptly reported the theft to the police and to the New York Department of Social Services (DSS). She requested emergency assistance (EA) under the State's federally funded Emergency Assistance Program, explaining that she had no money to purchase food and other essential items for her household for the month.  DSS denied her request on the basis of a recent state law which precludes the furnishing of any cash EA to persons receiving or eligible for AFDC, N. Y. Soc. Serv. Law §§ 350-j(2)(c) and (3) (McKinney Supp. 1981) (the "no-cash" provision), or of EA in any form to replace a lost or stolen public assistance grant, including an AFDC grant.  § 350-j(2)(e) (the "loss-or-theft" provision). 1 Appellee   Gertrude Parrish suffered a similar fate.  An AFDC mother, she lost her food and AFDC funds when her apartment was broken into and ransacked.  She applied for EA, and DSS denied her request on the same basis as it denied relief to appellee Bacon.  The other named appellees, Linda Selders and Freddie Mae Goodwine, also were denied EA after they cashed their AFDC checks and suffered the loss of their money. 2
Appellees brought this class action to enjoin enforcement of the state law insofar as it denies EA pursuant to the no-cash provision and the loss-or-theft provision. 3 Appellees argued that the law conflicts with the Act and violates equal protection because it arbitrarily discriminates against AFDC recipients: it provides cash EA to all eligible recipients other than AFDC recipients, and provides EA for lost or stolen public benefit grants to all public benefit recipients (such as recipients of social security and Supplemental Security Income) other than those on public assistance (including AFDC recipients).
The United States District Court for the Southern District of New York granted summary judgment in favor of appellees on the ground that the state provisions impermissibly narrowed the eligibility standards imposed on state EA programs by § 406(e) of the Act, 42 U. S. C. § 606(e), 4 and were thus   invalid under the Supremacy Clause.  Bacon v. Toia, 437 F.Supp. 1371 (1977). The United States Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit affirmed.  Bacon v. Toia, 580 F.2d 1044 (1978). Shortly thereafter, this Court decided Quern v. Mandley, 436 U.S. 725 (1978), in which we held that § 406(e) imposes permissive, not mandatory, standards on participating States.  The Court of Appeals granted a motion for rehearing, vacated the judgment of the District Court, and remanded the case for further consideration in light of Quern.  On remand, the District Court changed its prior decision and held that the New York law was not inconsistent with the federal Act.  In a subsequent opinion, the District Court invalidated the no-cash provision as a violation of equal protection but upheld the loss-or-theft provision.  Bacon v. Toia, 493 F.Supp. 865 (1980). On the second appeal, the Court of Appeals agreed with the District Court that our decision in Quern foreclosed a finding that the law violates the Supremacy Clause.  The Court of Appeals concluded, however, that both the no-cash and loss-or-theft provisions violate equal protection.  Bacon v. Toia, 648 F.2d 801 (1981). We noted probable jurisdiction.  454 U.S. 1122.
II
Where a party raises both statutory and constitutional arguments in support of a judgment, ordinarily we first address the statutory argument in order to avoid unnecessary resolution of the constitutional issue.  See Califano v. Yamasaki, 442 U.S. 682, 692-693 (1979);Hagans v. Lavine, 415 U.S. 528, 543 (1974).5 We conclude that this case may be resolved on statutory grounds.  As we explain below, the New York no-cash and loss-or-theft rules conflict with valid federal regulations promulgated by the Secretary of Health, Education, and Welfare (Secretary) (now the Secretary of Health and Human Services) which proscribe inequitable treatment under the EA program.  Thus, New York's rules are invalid under the Supremacy Clause.
A
Before reviewing the federal regulations that we find to be dispositive of this case, we first address appellant's claim that reliance on the Act is foreclosed by our decision in Quern v. Mandley, supra. In that case, we carefully reviewed the nature and scope of the EA program and examined one aspect of its relationship to the AFDC program. 6   Under Title IV-A of the Act, state public assistance plans approved by the Secretary are eligible for federal financial assistance.  AFDC is a major categorical aid program funded under the Act -- indeed, it is "the core of the Title IV-A system." Id., at 728. States are required, as a condition of federal funding under the AFDC program, to make assistance available to all persons who meet statutory eligibility criteria.  Id ., at 740; 42 U. S. C. §§ 602(a)(10), 606(a).  The EA program is a supplement to such categorical assistance programs as AFDC.  It permits federal reimbursement to States which choose to provide for temporary emergency assistance in their Title IV-A plans.  42 U. S. C. § 603(a)(5).  In contrast to AFDC, the EA program establishes much broader eligibility standards and is not limited to persons eligible for AFDC.  42 U. S. C. § 606(e).
Plaintiffs in Quern made the broad claim that a State participating in the federal EA program may not limit eligibility for EA more narrowly than the federal eligibility standards in § 406(e).  The state plan at issue provided emergency assistance only to certain AFDC families who were without shelter and to applicants presumptively eligible for AFDC who were in immediate need of clothing or household furnishings.  We rejected the plaintiffs' broad claim and held that unlike the AFDC program, § 406(e) establishes only permissive, not mandatory, eligibility standards.
Quern did not address the statutory issue before us today -- whether the complete and automatic exclusion of AFDC recipients from a State's EA program is inconsistent with the Act and applicable  regulations. The Court had no occasion to consider the question, since the EA program in that case included only AFDC recipients. In addition, the only pertinent federal regulations in Quern undermined the plaintiffs' claims and supported the State's rules.  See 436 U.S., at 743-744, n. 19; 45 CFR § 233.120 (1981).  Here, on the other hand, the Secretary has promulgated a regulation inconsistent with New York's no-cash and loss-or-theft rules.  See 45 CFR § 233.10 (1981); infra, at 139-142. 7 In short, although we emphasized in Quern that a State retains considerable flexibility in determining which emergencies to cover under its EA plan, we hardly suggested that the Secretary had been stripped of all authority to review a plan that arbitrarily or inequitably excluded a class of recipients.
B
The Secretary, who is charged with administering federal funding for EA under the Act, has promulgated the following regulation applicable to state plans under Title IV-A, including EA programs:
"(a) State plan requirements.  A State plan under title I, IV-A, X, XIV, or XVI, of the Social Security Act must:
"(1) Specify the groups of individuals, based on reasonable classifications, that will be included in the program, and all the conditions of eligibility that must be met by the individuals in the groups.  The groups selected for inclusion in the plan and the eligibility conditions imposed must not exclude individuals or groups on an arbitrary or unreasonable basis, and must not result in inequitable treatment of individuals or groups in the light of the provisions and purposes of the public assistance titles of the Social Security Act." 45 CFR § 233.10 (1981).
The Secretary has also issued regulations exclusively addressed to the EA program.  45 CFR § 233.120 (1981). 8
On the authority of these regulations, the Secretary has specifically required the inclusion of AFDC recipients in any EA program, and has disapproved New York's EA plan because it excludes AFDC recipients as a class.  Shortly after this Court's decision in Quern, the Office of Family Assistance of the Social Security Administration issued Action Transmittal SSA-AT-78-44 (OFA) addressed to state agencies administering approved public assistance programs.  The Transmittal explains that after Quern, "States remain free, under Federal policy to develop their own definition of   the kind of emergencies they will meet under this program." App. 173a. Nevertheless, " State Plan must clearly specify that AFDC recipients are included in its EA program.  Other categories of needy families with children may be included at State option; these categories must be specified in the plan." Id., at 174a (emphasis added).  In an amicus brief filed at the invitation of the Court of Appeals below, the Secretary confirmed that New York's exclusion of AFDC recipients through its no-cash and loss-or-theft provisions violates federal regulations, in particular the "equitable treatment" regulation, 45 CFR § 233.10 (1981).  App. to Motion to Affirm 12a-17a.  As the Secretary interpreted that regulation, the discrimination in New York's program is not justified by, or tailored to, the purposes of the EA program.  Ibid. 9
We agree that New York's law is invalid under the equitable-treatment regulation insofar as it automatically excludes AFDC recipients from the EA program.  The regulation, and the Secretary's decision to apply it to strike down New York's no-cash and loss-or-theft rules, clearly deserve judicial deference. We have often noted that   the interpretation of an agency charged with the administration of a statute is entitled to substantial deference. See, e. g., FEC v. Democratic Senatorial Campaign Committee, 454 U.S. 27 (1981); Quern, 436 U.S., at 738. In light of the strong support in the legislative history for the Secretary's conclusion that the automatic exclusion of AFDC recipients from an EA program is inequitable in light of the purposes of the EA program, we find such deference particularly appropriate in this case.
C
In 1967, Congress thoroughly revised the Social Security Act, including many of its public assistance provisions.  The House and Senate Committee Reports concerning the portion of the revision that would ultimately become the EA program 10 make it unmistakably clear that AFDC recipients were expected to benefit from the program.  The initial House Report states:
"Your committee understands that the process of determining eligibility and authorizing payments frequently precludes the meeting of emergency needs when a crisis occurs.  In the event of eviction, or when utilities are turned off, or when an alcoholic parent leaves children without food, immediate action is necessary.  It frequently is unavailable under State programs today.   When a child is suddenly deprived of his parents by their accidental death or when the agency finds that the conditions in the home are contrary to the child's welfare, the normal methods of payment have to be suspended while new arrangements and court referrals are made.
"To encourage public welfare agencies to move promptly and with maximum effectiveness in such situations, the bill contains an offer to the States of 50-percent participation in emergency assistance payments . . . .  The eligible families involved are those with children under 21 who either are or have recently been living with close relatives.  The families do not have to be receiving or eligible upon application to receive AFDC (although they are generally   of the same type), but they must be without available resources . . . .
"Assistance might be in any form . . . .  The provision is broad enough that emergencies can be met in migrant families as well as those meeting residence requirements of the State's AFDC program.  Its utilization would be optional with the States." H. R. Rep. No. 544, 90th Cong., 1st Sess., 109 (1967) (emphasis added).
This passage leaves the obvious implication that persons who are eligible for AFDC benefits would receive EA.  The Senate Report is almost identical, except for an explanation of the changes in the Senate bill.  S. Rep. No. 744, 90th Cong., 1st Sess., 165-166 (1967). 11 Indeed, in an earlier summary of this provision, the Senate Report describes EA as one of a series of amendments that "would set up new protections for the children in AFDC families." Id., at 146. 12
The House and Senate debates on this portion of the Social Security Amendments, although abbreviated, buttress our understanding of congressional intent.  Senator Long, floor manager of the bill, repeated the Senate Report's characterization of EA as one of several changes that would establish "new protections for the children in AFDC families." 113 Cong. Rec. 32592 (1967).  Comments by other legislators reveal a similar understanding. 13 Testimony by witnesses and statements introduced at the Senate hearings on the bill are also illuminating.  Many statements assume that AFDC would be covered, and some reveal the belief that EA would be principally an AFDC program. 14
III
The Secretary's decision to apply the "equitable treatment" regulation so as to forbid a State to exclude AFDC recipients from its EA program is eminently reasonable and deserves judicial deference. The regulation explicitly forbids the "inequitable treatment of individuals or groups in the light of the provisions and purposes of the public assistance titles of the Social Security Act." 45 CFR § 233.10 (1981).  AFDC recipients are "the core of the Title IV-A system," Quern, 436 U.S., at 728, and the principal group of beneficiaries under federally assisted state welfare programs.  Moreover, the legislative history reviewed above leaves no doubt that AFDC recipients were expected  to be included in a state EA program receiving federal financial assistance.
Because New York's no-cash 15 and loss-or-theft rules conflict   with a valid federal regulation, they are invalid under the Supremacy Clause.  See Chrysler Corp. v. Brown, 441 U.S. 281, 295-296 (1979). In light of our disposition of this Supremacy Clause claim, we do not address appellees' equal protection argument. 16
The judgment of the Court of Appeals is affirmed.
It is so ordered.
