OPINION
JUSTICE POWELL delivered the opinion of the Court.
The issue presented is whether the sale of pharmaceutical products to state and local government hospitals for resale in competition with private retail pharmacies is exempt from the proscriptions of the Robinson-Patman Act.
I
Petitioner, a trade association of retail pharmacists and pharmacies doing business in Jefferson County, Alabama,  commenced this action in 1978 in the District Court for the Northern District of Alabama as the   assignee of its members' claims.  Respondents are 15 pharmaceutical manufacturers, the Board of Trustees of the University of Alabama, and the Cooper Green Hospital Pharmacy. The University operates a medical center, including hospitals, and a medical school.  Located in the University's medical center are two pharmacies. Cooper Green Hospital is a county hospital, existing as a public corporation under Alabama law.
The complaint seeks treble damages and injunctive relief under §§ 4 and 16 of the Clayton Act, 38 Stat. 731, 737, 15 U. S. C. §§ 15 and 26, for alleged violations of §§ 2(a) and (f) of the Clayton Act, 38 Stat. 730, as amended by the Robinson-Patman Act (Act), 49 Stat. 1526, 15 U. S. C. §§ 13(a) and (f). Petitioner contends that the respondent manufacturers violated § 2(a) 1 by selling their products to the University's two pharmacies and to Cooper Green Hospital Pharmacy at prices lower than those charged petitioner's members for like products.  Petitioner alleges that the respondent hospital pharmacies knowingly induced such lower prices in violation of § 2(f) 2 and sold the drugs to the general public in direct competition with privately owned pharmacies. Petitioner also alleges that the price discrimination is not exempted from the proscriptions of the Act by 15 U. S. C. § 13c. 3
Respondents moved to dismiss the complaint on the ground that state purchases 4 are exempt as a matter of law from the sanctions of § 2.  In granting respondents' motions, the District Court expressly accepted as true the allegations that local retail pharmacies had been injured by the challenged price discrimination and that at least some of the state purchases were not exempt under § 13c.  656 F.2d 92, 98 (CA5 1981) (reprinting District Court's opinion as Appendix).  The District Court held that "governmental purchases are, without regard to 15 U. S. C. § 13c, beyond the intended reach of the Robinson-Patman Price Discrimination Act, at least with respect to purchases for hospitals and other traditional governmental purposes." Id., at 102. The Court of Appeals for the Fifth Circuit, in a divided per curiam decision, affirmed "on the basis of the district court's Memorandum of Opinion." Id., at 93. 5
We granted certiorari to resolve this important question of federal law.  455 U.S. 999 (1982). We now reverse.
II
The issue here is narrow.  We are not concerned with sales to the Federal Government, nor with state purchases for use in traditional governmental functions. 6 Rather, the issue before us is limited to state purchases for the purpose of competing against private enterprise -- with the advantage of discriminatory prices -- in the retail market. 7
The courts below held, and respondents contend, that the Act exempts all state purchases.  Assuming, without deciding, that Congress did not intend the Act to apply to state purchases for consumption in traditional governmental functions, and that such purchases are therefore exempt, we conclude that the exemption does not apply where a State has chosen to compete in the private retail market.
III
The Robinson-Patman Act by its terms does not exempt state purchases.  The only express exemption is that for   nonprofit institutions contained in 15 U. S. C. § 13c. 8 Moreover, as the courts below conceded, " statutory language -- 'persons' and 'purchasers' -- is sufficiently broad to cover governmental bodies.  15 U. S. C. §§ 12, 13(a, f)." 656 F.2d, at 99. 9 This concession was compelled by several of this Court's decisions. 10 In City of Lafayette v. Louisiana Power & Light Co., 435 U.S. 389, 395 (1978), for example, we stated without qualification that "the definition of 'person' or 'persons' embraces both cities and States." 11
Respondents would distinguish City of Lafayette from the case before us because it involved the Sherman Act rather than the Robinson-Patman Act. 12 Such a distinction ignores the specific reference to the Robinson-Patman Act in our discussion of the all-inclusive nature of the term "person." Id., at 397, n. 14. We do not perceive any reason to construe the word "person" in that Act any differently than we have in the Clayton Act, which it amends, 13 and it is undisputed that the Clayton Act applies to States.  See Hawaii v. Standard Oil Co., 405 U.S. 251, 260-261 (1972). 14 In sum, the plain language of the Act strongly suggests that there is no exemption for state purchases to compete with private enterprise.
IV
The plain language of the Act is controlling unless a different legislative intent is apparent from the purpose and history of the Act.  An examination of the legislative purpose and history here reveals no such contrary intention.
A
Our cases have been explicit in stating the purposes of the antitrust laws, including the Robinson-Patman Act.  On numerous occasions, this Court has affirmed the comprehensive coverage of the antitrust laws and has recognized that these laws represent "a carefully studied attempt to bring within  every person engaged in business whose activities might restrain or monopolize commercial intercourse among the states." United States v. South-Eastern Underwriters Assn., 322 U.S. 533, 553 (1944). 15 In Goldfarb v. Virginia State Bar, 421 U.S. 773 (1975), the Court observed that "our cases have repeatedly established that   there is a heavy presumption against implicit exemptions" from the antitrust laws. Id., at 787 (citing United States v. Philadelphia National Bank, 374 U.S. 321, 350-351 (1963); California v. FPC, 369 U.S. 482, 485 (1962)). 16 In City of Lafayette, supra, applying antitrust laws to a city in competition with a private utility, we held that no exemption for local governments would be implied.  The Court emphasized the purposes and scope of the antitrust laws: " economic choices made by public corporations . . . , designed as they are to assure maximum benefits for the community constituency, are not inherently more likely to comport with the broader interests of national economic well-being than are those of private corporations acting in furtherance of the interests of the organization and its shareholders." 435 U.S., at 403. See also id., at 408. 17
These principles, and the purposes they further, have been helpful in interpreting the language of the Robinson-Patman Act.  As JUSTICE BLACKMUN stated for the Court in Abbott Laboratories v. Portland Retail Druggists Assn., Inc., 425 U.S. 1, 11-12 (1976):
"It has been said, of course, that   the antitrust laws, and Robinson-Patman in particular, are to be construed liberally, and that the exceptions from their application are to be construed strictly.  United States v. McKesson & Robbins, 351 U.S. 305, 316 (1956); FMC v. Seatrain Lines, Inc., 411 U.S. 726, 733 (1973); Perkins v. Standard Oil Co., 395 U.S. 642, 646-647 (1969). The Court has recognized, also, that Robinson-Patman 'was enacted in 1936 to curb and prohibit all devices by which large buyers gained discriminatory preferences over smaller ones by virtue of their greater purchasing power.' FTC v. Broch & Co., 363 U.S. 166, 168 (1960); FTC v. Fred Meyer, Inc., 390 U.S. 341, 349 (1968). Because the Act is remedial, it is to be construed broadly to effectuate its purposes.  See Tcherepnin v. Knight, 389 U.S. 332, 336 (1967); Peyton v. Rowe, 391 U.S. 54, 65 (1968)."
B
The legislative history falls far short of supporting respondents' contention that there is an exemption for state purchases of "commodities" for "resale." There is nothing whatever in the Senate or House Committee Reports, or in the floor debates, focusing on the issue. 18 Some Members of Congress were aware of the possibility that the Act would apply to governmental purchases.  Most Members, however, were concerned not with state purchases, but with possible limitations on the Federal Government. The most relevant legislative history is the testimony of the Act's principal draftsman, H. B. Teegarden, before the House Judiciary Committee. 19 Although the testimony is ambiguous on the application of the Act to state purchases for consumption, one conclusion is certain: Teegarden expressly stated that the Act would apply to the purchases of municipal hospitals in at least some circumstances. 20 Thus, his comments directly contradict the exemption found by the courts below for all such purchasing. 21 In the absence of any other relevant evidence, we find no legislative intention to enable a State, by an unexpressed exemption, to enter private competitive markets with congressionally approved price advantages. 22
V
Despite the plain language of the Act and its legislative history, respondents nevertheless argue that subsequent legislative events and decisions of District Courts confirm that state purchases are outside the scope of the Act.  We turn therefore to these subsequent events.
A
Respondents cite the hearings on the Robinson-Patman Act held in the late 1960's. 23 Testimony before the House Subcommittee investigating practices in the pharmaceutical industry indicated that the Act did not cover price discrimination in favor of state hospitals, 24 and Federal   Trade Commission Chairman Paul Dixon disclaimed any authority over transactions involving state health care programs. 25 It is not at all clear, however, whether Chairman Dixon contemplated cases in which the state agency competed with private retailers, although he was aware of such practices by institutional purchasers. 26 Other statements expressed little more than informed, interested opinions on the issue presented, and are not entitled to the consideration appropriate for the constructions given contemporaneously with the Act's passage.  27 See supra, at 159-162, and n. 22.
It is clear from the House Subcommittee's conclusions that it did not focus on the question presented by this case.  The Subcommittee found that the difference between drug prices for retailers and government customers "is extremely substantial" and "not always fully explainable by either cost justifiable quantity discounts, economies of scale, or other factors inherent in bulk distribution." H. R. Rep. No. 1983, 90th Cong., 2d Sess., 77 (1968).  In the next conclusion, it stated that " acts and policies of individual manufacturers seem . . . violative of the Robinson-Patman Act . . . ." Ibid.  Thus, it is quite possible that the Subcommittee considered some state purchasing at discriminatory prices -- about which it had heard testimony -- to be unlawful.  The Subcommittee Report did include the awkwardly worded statement: "There is no basis apparent . . . why the mandate of the Robinson-Patman Act should not be applied to discriminatory drug sales favoring nongovernmental institutional purchasers, profit or nonprofit, to the extent there is prescription drug competition at the retail level with disfavored retail druggists." Id., at 79.  This unexceptional opinion, however, simply says that private institutional purchases may not facilitate unfair retail competition through sales at discriminatory prices.  The Subcommittee said nothing expressly about the unfair competition at issue in this case. 28
B
Respondents also argue that, without exception, courts considering the Act's coverage have concluded that it does not apply to government purchasers. They insist that no court has imposed liability upon a seller or buyer, under either § 2(a) or § 2(f), when the discriminatory price involved a sale to a State, city, or county.  See Brief for Respondent Board of Trustees 31-32.  There are serious infirmities in these broad assertions: (i) this Court has never held nor suggested that there is an exemption for state purchases; 29 (ii) the number of judicial decisions even considering the Act's application to purchases by state agencies is relatively small; 30 (iii) respondents cite no Court of Appeals decision that has expressly adopted their interpretation of § 2 before the decision below; (iv) some of the District Court cases upon which respondents rely are simply inapposite; 31 (v) it is not clear that any published District Court opinion has relied solely on a state purchase exemption to dismiss a Robinson-Patman Act claim alleging injury as a result of government competition in the private market; 32 and (vi) there are several cases that   suggest that the Robinson-Patman Act is applicable to state purchases for resale purposes. 33 This judicial track record is in no sense comparable to the unbroken chain of judicial decisions upon which this Court previously has relied for ascertaining a construction of the antitrust laws that Congress over a long period of time has chosen to preserve.  See cases cited, n. 27, supra.
Respondents also seek support in the interpretations of various commentators and executive officials.  But the most authoritative of these sources indicate that the question presented is unsettled; 34 others are not necessarily inconsistent with our holding; 35 and in some cases they support it. 36 Thus, Congress cannot be said to have left untouched a universally held interpretation of the Act. 37
In sum, it is clear that postenactment developments -- whether legislative, judicial, or in commentary -- rarely have   considered the specific issue before us.  There is simply no unambiguous evidence of congressional intent to exempt purchases by a State for the purpose of competing in the private retail market with a price advantage. 38
VI
The Robinson-Patman Act has been widely criticized, both for its effects and for the policies that it seeks to promote.  Although Congress is well aware of these criticisms, the Act has remained in effect for almost half a century.  And  it certainly is "not for  to indulge in the business of policy-making in the field of antitrust legislation. . . .  Our function ends with the endeavor to ascertain from the words used, construed in the light of the relevant material, what was in fact the intent of Congress." United States v. Cooper Corp., 312 U.S. 600, 606 (1941).
"A general application of the  Act to all combinations of business and capital organized to suppress commercial competition is in harmony with the spirit and impulses of the times which gave it birth." South-Eastern Underwriters, 322 U.S., at 553. The legislative history is replete with references to the economic evil of large organizations purchasing from other large organizations for resale in competition with the small, local retailers. There is no reason, in the absence of an explicit exemption, to think that Congressmen who feared these evils intended to deny small businesses, such as the pharmacies of Jefferson County, Alabama, protection from the competition of the strongest competitor of them all. 39 To create an exemption here clearly would be contrary to the intent of Congress.
VII
We hold that the sale of pharmaceutical products to state and local government hospitals for resale in competition with private pharmacies is not exempt from the proscriptions of the Robinson-Patman Act.  The judgment of the Court of Appeals accordingly is reversed, and the case is remanded for further proceedings consistent with this opinion.
It is so ordered.
<dissent author="STEVENS" text="TRUE">
DISSENT BY: STEVENS; O'CONNOR
JUSTICE STEVENS, dissenting.
While I join JUSTICE O'CONNOR's dissenting opinion, I believe an additional comment on the text of the Robinson-Patman Act may help to explain my vote.  For purposes of interpreting that statute, I think that federal, state, and local agencies are "purchasers," but that such governmental agencies are not engaged in "competition" with private parties even when they resell purchased goods to consumers who might otherwise have patronized a private retailer. Both before and after the 1936 statute amended § 2 of the Clayton Act, the requirement of proving an adverse effect on "competition" played an important part in limiting the coverage of the statute.
It is universally agreed that federal purchases are not covered by the Act. Even though it has always been obvious that primary line competition might be injured by discriminatory prices on sales to the Federal Government, and also that goods sold to military post exchanges would normally be resold at a substantial discount, no one in the 1936 legislative deliberations questioned the inapplicability of the Act to these sales.  The explanation, in my opinion, does not rest on the sovereign status of the Federal Government, * but rather on   the assumption embodied in the Act that federal agencies do not compete with nongovernmental entities.
Mr. Teegarden, the lobbyist, made this assumption clear in his statement at the 1935 House hearings, quoted in part by the opinion of the Court.  Ante, at 160-161, n. 19:
"Mr. LLOYD: Would this bill, in your judgment, prevent the granting of discounts to the United States Government?
. . . .
"For instance, the Government gets huge discounts. Take that electric fan, for instance.  You go to the ordinary store and the list price is $ 35.  The Procurement Division procures them delivered, one at a time, for $ 13.18.  Now, would that discount be barred by this bill?
"Mr. TEEGARDEN: I do not see why it should . . . .
"Aside from that, my answer would be this: The Federal Government is not in competition with other buyers from these concerns.  Therefore a discrimination -- it is so applied universally in interstate commerce law, in the railroad law -- to have a discrimination, there must be a relative position between the parties to the discrimination which constitutes an injury to one as against the other.  I think the answer is to be found in that.
"In other words, if seller A makes a price to a retailer in New York and a different price to a retailer in San Francisco,  all other things aside, no case of discrimination could be predicated there, because the two are not in the same sphere at all.
"The Federal Government is saved by the same distinction, not of location but of function.  They are not in competition with any one else who would buy." Hearings on H. R. 8442 et al. before the House Committee on the Judiciary, 74th Cong., 1st Sess., 208-209 (1935).
I would interpret the "distinction, not of location but of function" somewhat more broadly than does the majority.  It is not merely a question of whether government agencies do or do not resell the goods they have purchased.  Even when they resell items to the public, governmental entities do not engage in competition with private retailers in the same sense that chainstores compete with independent retailers. Most importantly, their activities are seldom affected by a profitmaking motivation; rather they are undertaken in connection with the provision of services to the public.  Further, their merchandising and price-setting decisions take a different set of factors into account.  As the Court notes, ante, at 158, n. 17, they need not include a profit component, their overhead may be subsidized,  and they may be exempt from state or federal taxation.  In short, governmental agencies are in an entirely different category of market participants.
I am convinced that the same analysis applies to purchases and resales by state and local agencies.  I do not believe that a municipal hospital that operates a pharmacy is any more engaged in competition with a retail druggist than a military post exchange is engaged in competition with a retail grocer or a retail clothing store.  To be sure, this analysis is not entirely consistent   with the conclusion implied by Mr. Teegarden's somewhat equivocal answer to Congressman Hancock.  Although he did not say that purchases by a city hospital would be covered by the bill, he did state that, " the two hospitals are in competition with each other," the fact that one was operated by the city would not save it from the bill.  But he went on to stress: "If they are not in competition with each other, then they are in a different sphere." Hearings on H. R. 8442, supra, at 209 (emphasis added).  In my view, if not in Mr. Teegarden's, the differences between a city hospital and a private hospital justify the conclusion that, for purposes of construing this statute, they should not be considered in competition with each other.
I therefore would hold as a matter of law that neither purchases nor sales by governmental agencies -- federal, state, or local -- constitute "competition" with private persons to which the statute has any application.  The Act has no impact on any governmental agency's ability to provide hospital and related services to its constituents.  For the reasons JUSTICE O'CONNOR has set forth in greater detail, I believe such a holding more accurately reflects the understanding of the Congress that enacted the statute and the lawyers and businessmen who have lived with the statute on a day-to-day basis for almost half a century.
<dissent author="O'CONNOR" text="TRUE">
JUSTICE O'CONNOR, with whom JUSTICE BRENNAN, JUSTICE REHNQUIST, and JUSTICE STEVENS join, dissenting.
The issue that confronts the Court is one of statutory construction: whether the Robinson-Patman Act covers purchases of commodities by state and local governments for resale in competition with private retailers. 1 The Court's   task, therefore, is to discern the intent of the 1936 Congress which enacted the Robinson-Patman Act.  I do not agree with the majority that this issue can be resolved by reference to cases under the Sherman Act or other statutes, or by reliance on the broad remedial purposes of the antitrust laws generally.  The 1936 Congress simply did not focus on this issue.  The business and legal communities have assumed for the past four decades that such purchases are not covered.  For these reasons, as explained more fully below, I respectfully dissent.
I
A
The majority relies extensively on the interpretation this Court has given to the term "person" under the Sherman Act and other statutes as a guide to whether the terms "person" and "purchasers," as used in § 2 of the Clayton Act, 38 Stat. 730, as amended by the Robinson-Patman Act (Act), 49 Stat. 1526, 15 U. S. C. § 13, include state and local governmental entities.  See ante, at 155-156.  In my view, such reliance is misplaced.  The question of the Robinson-Patman Act's treatment of governmental purchases requires an independent examination of the legislative history of that Act to ascertain congressional intent. 2 Indeed, the cases cited by the majority emphasize that the key question regarding coverage or noncoverage of governmental entities is the intent of Congress in enacting the statute in question. 3 Resolution of the statutory construction question cannot be made to depend upon the abstract assertion that the term "person" is broad enough to embrace States and municipalities. 4 For these reasons, the mere fact that in City of Lafayette v. Louisiana Power & Light Co., 435 U.S. 389, 397, n. 14 (1978), a Sherman Act case, the Court referred to the Robinson-Patman Act in its discussion of the breadth of the term "person" cannot resolve the question now before us.
Further, the majority opinion propounds a misleading syllogism when it (1) suggests that the term "person" in the Clayton and Robinson-Patman Acts should be construed similarly, (2) cites Hawaii v. Standard Oil Co., 405 U.S. 251 (1972), for the proposition that the Clayton Act applies to States, and (3) then opines that the terms "person" and "purchasers" under § 2 therefore should be construed to include state purchases.  Ante, at 155-156.  Because, as the majority observes, ante, at 156, n. 13, the definitional section of the Clayton Act, 15 U. S. C. § 12, was intended to apply to the Robinson-Patman Act, I do not dispute the first proposition.  However, Hawaii v. Standard Oil Co. stated only that a State is a "person" for purposes of bringing a treble damages action under § 4 of the Clayton Act. 405 U.S., at 261. 5 Conspicuously absent from the majority's discussion is any authority holding that States or local governments are persons for purposes of exposure to liability as purchasers under the provisions of the Clayton Act. 6 Although Congress might   now decide that the purchasing activities of States and local governments should be subject to the limitations imposed by § 2, that is a policy judgment appropriately left to legislative determination.
B
Nor do I find persuasive the majority's invocation of presumptions regarding the liberal construction and broad remedial purposes of the antitrust laws generally.  Without derogating the usefulness of those principles or suggesting that they should never play a role in the Robinson-Patman context, one may nevertheless candidly acknowledge that the Court also has identified a certain tension between the Robinson-Patman Act, on the one hand, and the Sherman Act and other antitrust statutes, on the other.  The Court frequently has recognized that strict enforcement of the anti-price-discrimination provisions of the former may lead to price rigidity and uniformity in direct conflict with the goals of the latter.  See, e. g., Great Atlantic & Pacific Tea Co. v. FTC, 440 U.S. 69, 80, 83, n. 16 (1979); Automatic Canteen Co. v. FTC, 346 U.S. 61, 63, 74   (1953); Standard Oil Co. v. FTC, 340 U.S. 231, 249, and n. 15 (1951). 7
At the very least, this recognition raises doubts that the Court should liberally construe the Robinson-Patman Act in favor of broader coverage. Those doubts are enhanced by the fact that Congress' principal aim in enacting the Robinson-Patman Act was to protect small retailers from the competitive injury suffered at the hands of large chain stores. 8 It is consistent with that intent for Congress also to have displayed special solicitude for the well-established, below-trade price-buying practices of governmental institutions.
II
As the majority documents, ante, at 160, n. 19, the legislative history of the Robinson-Patman Act clearly indicates that Congress envisioned some sort of immunity for governmental bodies. 9 The question before the Court is the extent of that immunity -- in particular, whether the purchase of goods by state and local governments for resale in competition with private retailers is within the intended scope of the Robinson-Patman Act.  As the majority acknowledges, ante, at 159, the 1936 Congress that enacted the Robinson-Patman Act did not focus on the precise issue before the Court. Notwithstanding this admission, the majority announces the surprising conclusion that " create an exemption here clearly would be contrary to the intent of Congress." Ante, at 171 (emphasis added).
The majority is correct in stating that it is not the business of this Court to engage in "'policy-making in the field of antitrust legislation'" in order to fill gaps where Congress has not clearly expressed its intent.  Ante , at 170 (quoting United States v. Cooper Corp., 312 U.S. 600, 606 (1941)). It is precisely because I concur in that admonition that I would refrain from attributing to Congress an intent to cover the state and local governmental purchases in question here. 10
A
In attempting to supply the unexpressed intent of Congress, the majority fails to offer satisfactory guidelines for determining the scope of the Act's coverage of governmental agencies. 11 The majority assumes, "without deciding, that Congress did not intend the Act to apply to state purchases for consumption in traditional governmental functions" and suggests that state purchases of pharmaceuticals for the purpose of resale to indigent citizens may not expose the State to antitrust liability.  Ante, at 154, and n. 7.
The majority's assumption, however, is inconsistent with the principles of statutory construction upon which it purports to rely.  If, absent a clear expression of legislative intent to the contrary, the plain language of the statute controls, then by the majority's own assertions one would have to conclude that even purchases for the State's own use or for resale to indigents would fall within the Act's proscriptions. For, as the majority remarks, ante, at 155, the terms "person" and "purchasers" are broad enough to include governmental entities, and the legislative history is "ambiguous on the application of the Act to state purchases for consumption . . . ." Ante, at 160-161.
Moreover, to the extent the majority implies that a State's coverage or noncoverage under the Act turns on the distinction between purchases for resale and purchases for consumption, 12 that distinction is inconsistent   with the competition rationale elsewhere suggested, ante, at 170, to underlie the prohibitions of § 2(a).  For example, a state university hospital might limit the use of its pharmacy to its own faculty and staff, thereby falling within the "for their own use" exception. 13 Nevertheless, the university pharmacy may be inflicting competitive injury on private pharmacies that the university's faculty and staff might otherwise patronize. 14 Thus, the majority's conflicting suggestions leave in doubt what principle -- the presence of functional competition or the consumption/resale dichotomy -- guides the determination whether a state or local government's purchases fall within the Act's proscriptions.
B
Against the backdrop of a legislative history that even the majority concedes does not focus on the issue before us stands the general consensus in the legal and business communities that sales to governmental entities are not covered by the Robinson-Patman Act.  The majority devotes considerable effort to distinguishing or undercutting the authorities cited by the respondents.  In so doing, and in observing that these authorities cannot reveal Congress' intent in 1936, ante, at 165, n. 27, the majority misunderstands the significance of this evidence.  These authorities simply illustrate the virtually unanimous assumption over the past 47 years of noncoverage of governmental entities -- an assumption that has served as the basis of well-established governmental purchasing practices and marketing relationships.  In the past the Court has relied upon the widespread understanding of the provisions of the Robinson-Patman Act in limiting the scope of the Act's prohibitions. 15 To do so here is no less appropriate.
Despite its attempt to discount the significance of the judicial authorities cited by the respondents, the majority cannot dispute that no court has imposed liability upon a seller or buyer, under either § 2(a) or § 2(f), 15 U. S. C. §§ 13(a) and (f), in a case involving an alleged price discrimination in favor of a federal, state, or municipal governmental purchaser. 16   Commentators confirm the general judicial consensus that sales to States and municipalities are not covered by the Act. 17 Moreover, Congress' failure to enact bills extending    Robinson-Patman coverage to these entities buttresses this interpretation of the Act.  See n. 9, supra.
This same understanding has been expressed in testimony before Congress.  In 1967 and 1968 a congressional Subcommittee conducted public hearings on the problems of small businesses in the pharmaceutical industry.  The Subcommittee heard testimony from both representatives of pharmaceutical manufacturers and retail pharmacists regarding the industrywide practice of price discrimination in sales of pharmaceuticals to governmental purchasers -- federal, state, county, and municipal. 18 Several witnesses also directly expressed their assumption that the Robinson-Patman Act does not apply to such sales. 19
In 1969 and 1970, the same House Subcommittee investigated the problems of small businessmen under the Robinson-Patman Act.  In these hearings witnesses again expressed the view that governmental purchases at any level are not covered, highlighting the problem of favorable prices on governmental purchases for resale and making a plea for a change in the law. 20
III
The legislative history of the Robinson-Patman Act clearly reveals that Congress   intended to exclude governmental entities from the Act's proscriptions to some extent.  However, Congress did not focus on the issue before us and therefore did not provide a clear rationale governing coverage and noncoverage. In an area in which bright lines are needed to guide state and local governments in their purchasing practices, the majority fails to identify any principle triggering inclusion or exclusion.
Moreover, one cannot doubt that state, county, and municipal governments and manufacturers of commodities have structured their marketing relationships with each other on the longstanding assumption that the Robinson-Patman Act does not apply to those transactions.  That understanding finds substantial support among the courts and commentators.  State and local governments have developed programs for providing services to the public, including medical care to the indigent and the medically needy, 21 based on the same assumption.  The majority's holding that sales of commodities to state and local governments for resale in competition with private enterprise are covered by the Act will engender significant disruption -- not only through government and industry reexamination and restructuring of marketing relationships, but also, unfortunately, through possible termination of services and supplies to needy citizens 22 and through litigation associated with the process of reexamination. 23 The Court rests its decision primarily on one statement in the legislative history, 24 taken in isolation from other remarks designed to assure concerned House Members that the Act would not force the abandonment of governmental below-market buying practices which the majority's holding now calls into question.  Given Congress' failure to delineate the extent of the Robinson-Patman Act's coverage or noncoverage of state and local governments, I would allow Congress to speak on this issue rather than disrupt longstanding practices and programs and judicially arm private litigants with a powerful treble-damages action against these governments.  Therefore, I would affirm the judgment below.
