OPINION
JUSTICE WHITE delivered the opinion of the Court.
Under the Quiet Title Act of 1972 (QTA), 1 the United States, subject to certain exceptions, has   waived its sovereign immunity and has permitted plaintiffs to name it as a party defendant in civil actions to adjudicate title disputes involving real property in which the United States claims an interest.  These cases present two separate issues concerning the QTA.  The first is whether Congress intended the QTA to provide the exclusive procedure by which a claimant can judicially challenge the title of the United States to real   property. The second is whether the QTA's 12-year statute of limitations, 28 U. S. C. § 2409a(f), is applicable in instances where the plaintiff is a State, such as respondent North Dakota.  We conclude that the QTA forecloses the other bases for relief urged by the State, and that the limitations provision is as fully applicable to North Dakota as it is to all others who sue under the QTA.
I
It is undisputed that under the equal-footing doctrine first set forth in Pollard's Lessee v. Hagan, 3 How. 212 (1845), North Dakota, like other States, became the owner of the beds of navigable streams in the State upon its admission to the Union.  It is also agreed that   under the law of North Dakota, a riparian owner has title to the center of the bed of a nonnavigable stream.  See N. D. Cent. Code § 47-01-15 (1978); Amoco Oil Co. v. State Highway Dept., 262 N. W. 2d 726, 728 (N. D. 1978).Because of differing views of navigability, the United States and North Dakota assert competing claims to title to certain portions of the bed of the Little Missouri River within North Dakota.  The United States contends that the river is not now and never has been navigable, and it claims most of the disputed area based on its status as riparian landowner. 2 North Dakota, on the other hand, asserts that the river was navigable on October 1, 1889, the date North Dakota attained statehood, and therefore that title to the disputed bed vested in it under the equal-footing doctrine on that date.  Since at least 1955, the United States has been  issuing riverbed oil and gas leases to private entities.
Seeking to resolve this dispute as to ownership of the riverbed, North Dakota filed this suit in the District Court against several federal officials. 3 The State's complaint requested injunctive and mandamus   relief directing the defendants to "cease and desist from  or otherwise exercising privileges of ownership upon the bed of the Little Missouri River within the State of North Dakota," and it further sought a declaratory judgment " the Little Missouri River to be a navigable river for the purpose of determining ownership of the bed." App. 9.  As the jurisdictional basis for its suit, North Dakota invoked 28 U. S. C. § 1331 (federal question); 28 U. S. C. § 1361 (mandamus); 28 U. S. C. §§ 2201-2202 (declaratory judgment and further relief); and  5 U. S. C. §§ 701-706 (the judicial review provisions of the Administrative Procedure Act).  App. 6.  North Dakota's original complaint did not mention the QTA.  However, the District Court required the State to amend its complaint to recite a claim thereunder. App. to Pet. for Cert. in No. 81-2337, pp. A-14 -- A-16.  The State complied and filed an amended complaint.  App. 13-16. 4
The matter thereafter proceeded to trial.  North Dakota introduced evidence in support of its claim that the river was navigable on the date of statehood. 5 The federal defendants, while denying navigability, presented no evidence on   this point; 6 their evidence was limited to showing, for statute of limitations purposes, that the State had notice of the United States' claim more than 12 years prior to the commencement of the suit.
After trial, the District Court rendered judgment for North Dakota.  The court first concluded that the Little Missouri River was navigable in 1889 and that North Dakota attained title to the bed at statehood under the equal-footing doctrine and the Submerged Lands Act of 1953, 43 U. S. C. § 1311(a).  506 F.Supp. 619, 622-624 (ND 1981). Then, applying what it deemed to be an accepted rule of construction that statutes of limitations do not apply to sovereigns unless a contrary legislative intention is clearly evident from the express language of the statute or otherwise, the court rejected the defendants' claim that North Dakota's suit was barred by the QTA's 12-year statute of limitations, 28 U. S. C. § 2409a(f).  506 F.Supp., at 625-626. 7 The District Court accordingly entered judgment quieting North Dakota's title to the bed of the river. App. to Pet. for Cert. in No. 81-2337, pp. A-29 -- A-30. 8 The Court of Appeals affirmed in all respects.  671 F.2d 271 (CA8 1982).
The defendants' petition for certiorari, which we granted, 459 U.S. 820 (1982), challenged only the Court of Appeals' conclusion that the QTA's statute of limitations is inapplicable to States.  North Dakota filed a conditional cross-petition, No. 82-132, asserting that even if its suit under the QTA is barred by § 2409a(f), the judgment below is still correct because the QTA remedy is not exclusive and its suit against the federal officers is still maintainable wholly aside from the QTA.  This submission, which the Court of Appeals did not find it necessary to address, is also urged by the State, as respondent in No. 81-2337, as a ground for affirming the judgment in its favor.  See United States v. New York Telephone Co., 434 U.S. 159, 166, n. 8 (1977);  Dayton Board of Education v. Brinkman, 433 U.S. 406, 419 (1977). We now grant the cross-petition, which heretofore has remained pending, and we first address the question presented by it.
II
The States of the Union, like all other entities, are barred by federal sovereign immunity from suing the United States in the absence of an express waiver of this immunity by Congress.  California v. Arizona, 440 U.S. 59, 61-62 (1979);Minnesota v. United States, 305 U.S. 382, 387 (1939); Kansas v. United States, 204 U.S. 331, 342 (1907).Only upon passage of the QTA did the United States waive its immunity with respect to suits involving title to land.  Prior to 1972, States and all others asserting title to land claimed by the United States had only limited means of obtaining a resolution of the title dispute -- they could attempt to induce the United States to file a quiet title action against them, or they could petition Congress or the Executive for discretionary relief.  Also, since passage of the Tucker Act in 1887, those claimants willing to settle for monetary damages rather than  title to the disputed land could sue in the Court of Claims and attempt to make out a constitutional claim for just compensation.  See 28 U. S. C. § 1491; Malone v. Bowdoin, 369 U.S. 643, 647, n. 8 (1962).
Enterprising claimants also pressed the so-called "officer's suit" as another possible means of obtaining relief in a title dispute with the Federal Government.  In the typical officer's suit involving a title dispute, the claimant would proceed against the federal officials charged with supervision of the disputed area, rather than against the United States.  The suit would be in ejectment or, as here, for an injunction or a writ of mandamus forbidding the defendant officials to interfere with the claimant's property rights.
As a device for circumventing federal sovereign immunity in land title disputes, the officer's suit ultimately did not prove to be successful.  This Court appeared to accept the device in early cases.  See United States v. Lee, 106 U.S. 196 (1882); Meigs v. M'Clung's Lessee, 9 Cranch 11 (1815). Later cases, however, were inconsistent; some held that such suits were barred by sovereign immunity, while others did not, and "it is fair to say that to reconcile completely all the decisions of the Court in this field . . . would be a Procrustean task." Malone v. Bowdoin, supra, at 646. Compare, e. g., the cases cited 369 U.S., at 646, n. 6, with those cited id., at 646, n. 7.
In Malone, the Court cut through the tangle of the previous decisions and applied to land disputes the rule announced in Larson v. Domestic & Foreign Corp ., 337 U.S. 682 (1949):
" action of a federal officer affecting property claimed by a plaintiff can be made the basis of a suit for specific relief against the officer as an individual only if the officer's action is 'not within the officer's statutory powers or, if within those powers, only if the powers, or their exercise in the particular case, are constitutionally void.'" Malone, supra, at 647 (quoting Larson, supra, at 702).
The Larson-Malone test plainly made it more difficult for a plaintiff to employ a suit against federal officers as a vehicle for resolving a title dispute with the United States.  Thus, in the decade after Malone, claimants having disputes with the United States over real property met with little success in most courts. 9
Against this background, Congress considered and passed the QTA in 1972.  At a hearing on the bill, the officer's-suit possibility was called to the attention of Congress. 10 The predominant view, however, was that citizens asserting title to or the right to possession of lands claimed by the United States were "without benefit of a recourse to the courts," because of the doctrine of sovereign immunity. 11
Congress sought to rectify this state of affairs.  The original version of S.  216, the bill that became the QTA, was short and simple.  Its substantive provision provided for no qualifications whatsoever.  It stated in its entirety: "The United States may be named a party in any civil action brought by any person to quiet title to lands claimed by the United States." 117 Cong. Rec. 46380 (1971).  The Executive Branch opposed the original version of S. 216 and proposed, in its stead, a more elaborate bill, reprinted in S. Rep. No. 92-575, pp. 7-8 (1971), providing several "appropriate safeguards for the protection of the public interest." 12
This Executive proposal, made by the Justice Department, limited the waiver of sovereign immunity in several important respects.  First, it excluded Indian lands from the scope of the waiver.  The Executive Branch felt that a waiver of immunity in this area would not be consistent with "specific commitments" it had made to the Indians through treaties and other agreements. 13 Second, in order to insure that the waiver would not "serve to disrupt costly ongoing Federal programs that involve the disputed lands," the proposal allowed the United States the option of paying money damages instead of surrendering the property if it lost a case on the merits. 14 Third, the Justice Department proposal provided that the legislation would have prospective effect only; that is, it would not apply to claims that accrued prior to the date of enactment. This was deemed necessary so that the work-load of the Justice Department and the courts could develop at a rate which could be absorbed. 15 Fourth, to insure that stale claims would not be opened up to litigation, 16 the proposed bill included a 6-year statute of limitations. 17
The Senate accepted the Justice Department's proposal, with the notable exception of the provision that would have given the bill prospective effect only.  The Senate-passed version of the bill contained a "grandfather clause" that would have allowed old claims to be asserted for two years after the bill became law. 18
Primarily because of the grandfather clause, the Executive Branch could still not accept the bill.  The Department of Justice argued that this clause could cause "a flood of litigation on old claims, many of which had already been submitted to the Congress and rejected," thereby putting "an undue burden on the Department and the courts." 19 As a compromise, the Department proposed to give up its insistence on "prospective only" language and to accept an increase in the statute of limitations to 12 years, in exchange for elimination of the grandfather clause. 20 This proposal had the effect of making the bill retroactive for a 12-year period.  The House included this compromise in the version of the bill passed by it, and the Senate acquiesced and the bill became law with the compromise language intact.
In light of this legislative history, we need not be detained long by North Dakota's contention that it can avoid the QTA's statute of limitations and other restrictions by the device of an officer's suit.  If North Dakota's position were correct, all of the carefully crafted provisions of the QTA deemed necessary for the protection of the national public interest could be averted.  "It would require the suspension of disbelief to ascribe to Congress the design to allow its careful and thorough remedial scheme to be circumvented by artful pleading." Brown v. GSA, 425 U.S. 820, 833 (1976).
If we were to allow claimants to try the Federal Government's title to land under an officer's-suit theory, the Indian lands exception to the QTA would be rendered nugatory.  The United States could also be dispossessed of the disputed property without being afforded the option of paying damages, thereby thwarting the congressional intent to avoid disruptions of costly federal activities. Finally, and most relevant to the present cases, the QTA's 12-year statute of limitations, the one point on which the Executive Branch was most insistent, could be avoided, and,  contrary to the wish of Congress, an unlimited number of suits involving stale claims might be instituted.
Brown v. GSA, supra, is instructive here.  In that case, we held that § 717 of the Civil Rights Act of 1964, 42 U. S. C. § 2000e-16, was the exclusive remedy for federal employment discrimination.  There, as here, it was "problematic" whether any judicial relief at all was available prior to passage of the Act; the prevailing congressional view was that there was none.  425 U.S., at 826-828. There, as here, the "balance, completeness, and structural integrity" of the statute belied the contention that it "was designed merely to supplement other putative judicial relief." Id., at 832. Thus, we applied the rule that   a precisely drawn, detailed statute pre-empts more general remedies.  Id., at 834. 21 That rule is equally applicable in the present context.
Accordingly, we need not reach the question whether, prior to 1972, Larson v. Domestic & Foreign Corp., 337 U.S. 682 (1949), and Malone v. Bowdoin, 369 U.S. 643 (1962), would have permitted an officer's suit to be maintained under the present circumstances. 22 We hold that Congress intended   the QTA to provide the exclusive means by which adverse claimants could challenge the United States' title to real property. 23
III
We also cannot agree with North Dakota's submission, which was accepted by the District Court and the Court of Appeals, that the States are not subject to the operation of § 2409a(f).  This issue is purely one of statutory interpretation, and we find no support for North Dakota's position in either the plain statutory language or the legislative history.
The basic rule of federal sovereign immunity is that the United States cannot be sued at all without the consent of Congress.  A necessary corollary of this rule is that when Congress attaches conditions to legislation waiving the sovereign immunity of the United States, those conditions must be strictly observed, and exceptions thereto are not to be lightly implied.  See, e. g., Lehman v. Nakshian, 453 U.S. 156, 160-161 (1981); United States v. Kubrick, 444 U.S. 111, 117-118 (1979); Honda v. Clark, 386 U.S. 484, 501 (1967); Soriano v. United States, 352 U.S. 270 (1957); United States v. Sherwood, 312 U.S. 584, 591 (1941). When waiver legislation contains a statute of limitations,  the limitations provision constitutes a condition on the waiver of sovereign immunity. Accordingly, although we should not construe such a time-bar provision unduly restrictively, we must be careful not to interpret it in a manner that would "extend the waiver beyond that which Congress intended." United States v. Kubrick, supra, at 117-118 (citing Soriano v. United States, supra; Indian Towing Co. v. United States, 350 U.S. 61 (1955)). Accordingly, before finding that Congress intended here to exempt the States from satisfying the time-bar condition on its waiver of immunity, we should insist on some clear indication of such an intention.
Proceeding in accordance with these well-established principles, we observe that   § 2409a(f) expressly states that any civil action is time-barred unless filed within 12 years after the date it accrued. The statutory language makes no exception for civil actions by States.  Nor is there any evidence in the legislative history suggesting that Congress intended to exempt the States from the condition attached to the immunity waiver. 24 These facts alone, in the  light of our approach to sovereign immunity cases, would appear to compel the conclusion that States are not entitled to an exemption from the strictures of § 2409a(f).
The State, however, relies on the well-known canon of statutory construction that " of limitation are not . . . held to embrace the State, unless she is expressly designated,  or necessarily included by the nature of the mischiefs to be remedied." Weber v. Board of Harbor Comm'rs, 18 Wall. 57, 70 (1873). Accord, Guaranty Trust Co. v. United States, 304 U.S. 126, 132-133 (1938). Because § 2409a(f) does not expressly include the State, North Dakota urges, and the Court of Appeals held, that the State was not barred by the statute.  While recognizing that immunity waivers by the United States are to be carefully construed, the Court of Appeals concluded that precedence should be given to the competing canon of statutory construction that statutes of limitations should not apply to the States absent express legislative inclusion. 671 F.2d, at 275-276.
We do not agree.  In fashioning sovereign-immunity waiver legislation, Congress is certainly free to exempt the States from a statute of limitations or any other condition of the waiver.  But there is no merit to North Dakota's assertion that a condition on a congressional waiver of federal sovereign immunity should be regarded as inapplicable to States in the absence of express intent to the contrary.  This Court has  never sanctioned such a rule.  Quite the contrary, in United States v. Louisiana, 127 U.S. 182 (1888), the Court held that   a general statute of limitations, one that did not expressly mention States, barred a State's claim against the Federal Government.  And in Minnesota v. United States, 305 U.S., at 388-389, where the United States had waived its immunity on the condition that any suit against it had to be brought in a federal court, we concluded without hesitation that the plaintiff State's suit should have been dismissed for lack of jurisdiction, because it had been filed in state court, even though the federal-court condition did not expressly apply to States.  Thus, neither Congress nor the decisions of this Court have suggested that the States are presumed to be exempt from satisfying the conditions placed by Congress on its immunity waivers; and, in light of our Constitution, which makes the federal law ultimately supreme, these holdings should not have been surprising. 25
We do not discount the importance of the generally applicable rule of statutory construction relied upon by the Court of Appeals.  The judicially created rule that a sovereign is normally exempt from the operation of a generally worded statute of limitations has retained its vigor because it serves the public policy of preserving the public rights, revenues, and property from injury and loss, by the negligence of public officers.  Guaranty Trust Co. v. United States, supra, at 132. Thus, in these cases, the rule would further the interests of the citizens of North Dakota, by affording them some protection against the negligence of state officials in failing to comply with the otherwise applicable statute of limitations.
Even assuming, however, that this rule has relevance in construing the applicability to the States of a congressionally imposed statute of limitations not expressly including the States, here the will of Congress is apparent and we must follow it.  As the legislative history outlined in Part II above shows, Congress agreed with the Executive that § 2409a(f) was necessary for protection of national public interests.  In general, a suit by a State against the United States affects the congressionally recognized national public interests to the same degree as does a suit by a private entity.  Therefore, the judge-created rule designed to protect the interests of the citizens of one particular State must yield in the face of the evidence that Congress has determined that the national interest requires a contrary rule.  We are convinced that Congress had no intention of exempting the States from compliance with § 2409a(f).  That section must be applied to the States because they are "necessarily included by the nature of the mischiefs to be remedied." Weber v. Board of Harbor Comm'rs, supra, at 70. We thus conclude that   States must fully adhere to the requirements of § 2409a(f) when suing the United States under the QTA.
IV
North Dakota finally argues that, even if Congress intended to apply § 2409a(f) to it, and even if valid when applied in suits relating to other kinds of land, the section is unconstitutional under the equal-footing doctrine and the Tenth Amendment insofar as it purports to bar claims to lands constitutionally vested in the State.  We are unable to agree.
The State probably is correct in stating that Congress could not, without making provision for payment of compensation, pass a law depriving a State of land vested in it by the Constitution.  Such a law would not run afoul of the equal-footing doctrine or the Tenth Amendment, as asserted by North Dakota, but it would constitute a taking of the State's property without just compensation, in violation of the Fifth Amendment. 26 Section 2409a(f), however, does not purport to strip any State, or anyone else for that matter, of any property rights.  The statute limits the time in which a quiet title suit against the United States can be filed; but, unlike an adverse possession provision, § 2409a(f) does not purport to effectuate a transfer of title.  If a claimant has title to a disputed tract of land, he retains title even if his suit to quiet his title is deemed time-barred under § 2409a(f). A dismissal pursuant to § 2409a(f) does not quiet title to the property in the United States.  The title dispute remains unresolved. 27 Nothing prevents the claimant from continuing to assert his title, in hope of inducing the United States to file its own quiet title suit, in which the matter would finally be put to rest on the merits. 28
Thus, we see no constitutional infirmity in § 2409a(f).  A constitutional claim can become time-barred just as any other claim can.  See, e. g., Board of Regents v. Tomanio, 446 U.S. 478 (1980);Soriano v. United States, 352 U.S. 270 (1957). Nothing in the Constitution requires otherwise.
V
Admittedly, North Dakota comes before us with an appealing case.  Both lower courts held that the Little Missouri is navigable and that the State obtained title to the disputed land at statehood. The federal defendants have not asked this Court to review the correctness of these substantive holdings other than to submit that these determinations are time-barred by the QTA. 29 We agree with this submission.  Whatever the merits of the title dispute may be, the federal defendants are correct: If North Dakota's suit is barred by § 2409a(f), the courts below had no jurisdiction to inquire into the merits.
In view of the foregoing, the judgment of the Court of Appeals is reversed. North Dakota's action may proceed, if at all, only under the QTA.  If the State's suit was filed more than 12 years after its action accrued, the suit is barred by § 2409a(f).  Since the lower courts made no findings as to the date on which North Dakota's suit accrued, the cases must be remanded for further proceedings consistent with this opinion.
So ordered.
<dissent author="O'CONNOR" text="TRUE">
DISSENT BY: O'CONNOR
JUSTICE O'CONNOR, dissenting.
I agree with the Court that the sole remedy available to North Dakota is an action under the Quiet Title Act. Having concluded that Congress has permitted such suits, though, I would not reject the usual rule that statutes of limitation do not bar a sovereign, a rule that is especially appropriate in the context of these cases.  Consequently, I dissent.
Since the Quiet Title Act is the sole relief available to North Dakota, we confront the question whether Congress intended the statute of limitations to bar actions by States.  The Court resolves the question by invocation of the principle that waivers of sovereign immunity are to be strictly construed.  See ante, at 287. 1 The question is not that simple.
Although it is indeed true that the Court construes waivers of sovereign immunity strictly, that principle of statutory construction is no more than an aid in the task of determining congressional intent. In a close case, it may help the Court choose between two equally plausible constructions.  It cannot, however, grant the Court authority to narrow judicially the waiver that Congress intended.  United States v. Kubrick, 444 U.S. 111, 118 (1979); Indian Towing Co. v. United States, 350 U.S. 61, 69 (1955). The mere observation that a statute waives sovereign immunity, then, cannot resolve questions of construction.  The Court still must consider all indicia of congressional intent. Considering all the evidence, I cannot agree with the Court's conclusion that Congress intended to subject the States to a statute of limitations that would prevent their assertion of title to lands held in trust for the public.
The common law has long accepted the principle "nullum tempus occurrit regi" -- neither laches nor statutes of limitations will bar the sovereign. See, e. g., 10 W. Holdsworth, A History of English Law 355 (1938); D. Gibbons, A Treatise on the Law of Limitation and Prescription 62 (1835).  The courts of this country accepted the principle from English law.  See, e. g., Weber v. Board of Harbor Comm'rs, 18 Wall. 57 (1873); United States v. Kirkpatrick, 9 Wheat. 720, 735 (1824);  Iverson & Robinson v. Dubose, 27 Ala. 418, 422 (1855); Stoughton v. Baker, 4 Mass. 522, 528 (1803); see generally J. May, Angell on Limitations 29-30 (5th ed. 1869).  As this Court observed: "So complete has been its acceptance that the implied immunity of the domestic 'sovereign,' state or national, has been universally deemed to be an exception to local statutes of limitations where the government, state or national, is not expressly included." Guaranty Trust Co. v. United States, 304 U.S. 126, 133 (1938). In this country, courts adopted the rule, not on the theory that an "impeccable" sovereign   could not be guilty of laches, but because of the public policies served by the doctrine.  The public interest in preserving public rights and property from injury and loss attributable to the negligence of public officers and agents, through whom the public must act, justified a special rule for the sovereign.
These policies reach their apex in the case of lands held in trust for the public.  The interests of the sovereign, so widespread and varied, hinder it in the exercise of the vigilance  in protecting rights that we   require of private parties.  Yet the public must not lose its rights because of the constraints on the sovereign.
"If a contrary rule were sanctioned, it would only be necessary for intruders upon the public lands to maintain their possessions, until the statute of limitations shall run; and then they would become invested with the title against the government, and all persons claiming under it.  In this way the public domain would soon be appropriated by adventurers.  Indeed it would be utterly impracticable, by the use of any power within the reach of the government, to prevent this result.  It is only necessary, therefore, to state the case, in order to show the wisdom and propriety of the rule that the statute never operates against the government." Lindsey v. Lessee of Miller, 6 Pet. 666, 673 (1832).
Accord, Guaranty Trust Co. v. United States, supra, at 132; Weber v. Board of Harbor Comm'rs, supra, at 68, 70; United States v. Knight, 14 Pet. 301, 314 (1840); J. May, supra, at 29. 2
The lands in controversy here are held in trust for the public by North Dakota, see App. to Pet. for Cert. in No. 81-2337, p. A-6; United Plainsmen v. North Dakota State Water Conservation Comm'n, 247 N. W. 2d 457 (N. D. 1976). This case, therefore, implicates the core policies underlying the doctrine, and we should be extremely reluctant to reject the usual rule that time will not bar the sovereign.
The Court, however, dismisses this rule, apparently on the theory that it does not apply in actions between two sovereigns. But the authority that it cites for that proposition is weak at best.  United States v. Louisiana, 127 U.S. 182 (1888), involved a claim for money rather than a dispute to title over public trust lands.  More important, the parties never argued for the application of the rule that time does not bar the sovereign. See Brief for Appellant and Brief for Appellee in United States v. Louisiana, O. T. 1887, No. 1388.  The Court's decision in that case therefore cannot serve as authority for rejecting the rule when, as is the situation here, it is raised.  Nor does Minnesota v. United States, 305 U.S. 382 (1939),  support the Court.  There, a State sought to sue the United States in state court.  Construing the waiver of sovereign immunity narrowly, we held that the United States had only waived its immunity as to suits in federal court, and we applied that condition against the State.  Since no general rule permits a sovereign to maintain a suit in any forum it chooses, the holding of Minnesota reflects nothing more than the usual reluctance to construe waivers of sovereign immunity broadly in the absence of any countervailing considerations.
Thus, our precedents do not reject the principle that time does not bar the sovereign in conflicts between sovereigns. On the contrary, our precedents suggest that a sovereign can invoke this principle against another sovereign. In Rhode Island v. Massachusetts, 15 Pet. 233 (1841), the Court declined to apply the ordinary rule of limitations in a dispute between sovereign States. Chief Justice Taney observed: " would be impossible with any semblance of justice to adopt such a rule of limitation in the case before us.  For here two political communities are concerned, who cannot act with the same promptness as individuals . . . ." Id., at 273. In particular, when lands held in trust for the public are at stake, the Court has recognized sovereign prerogatives of other governmental units as bars to defenses asserted by the United States.  See New Orleans v. United States, 10 Pet. 662 (1836). 3 Consequently, I disagree with the Court's conclusion that the principle that time will not bar the sovereign has no application in these cases.
Turning to the statute at issue here, the circumstances of its enactment indicate that Congress did not intend to bar actions by States.  As general background, we know that Congress was aware of the rule that, to affect the government, an enactment imposing a burden or a limitation must expressly include the sovereign. See, e. g., Wilson v. Omaha Indian Tribe, 442 U.S. 653, 667 (1979). The particular incident that spurred Congress to pass the Quiet Title Act was a dispute between private landowners and the Federal Government. See Hearings on S. 216 et al. before the Subcommittee on Public Lands of the Senate Committee on Interior and Insular Affairs, 92d Cong., 1st Sess., 83-85 (1971) (affidavit of A. L. Robinson).  The statements in the hearings reflect a focus on disputes between private citizens and the Federal Government.  See, e. g., id., at 20 (statement of Shiro Kashiwa) (referring to claims of "private citizens"); id., at 55, 58 (statement of T. E. McKnight) (observing that "private landowners" had no right to sue the Government).  See also S. Rep. No. 92-575, pp. 1, 2 (1971) (recognizing inequity of denying action to "private citizen" and explaining that bill would enable "citizen" to have his day in court).  Finally, the House Report explained the limitations provision in the Quiet Title Act as designed to give "persons" a certain amount of time to sue.  H. R. Rep. No. 92-1559, p. 5 (1972).
Indeed, this Court has already been called upon to conform the provisions of the Quiet Title Act -- enacted by Congress with private citizens in mind -- to the special requirements of litigation involving States.  In California v. Arizona, 440 U.S. 59 (1979), California sought to sue Arizona and the United States, in a quiet title action in which both defendants were indispensable parties.  Under the Constitution, this Court had original jurisdiction over the claim against Arizona, U.S. Const., Art. III, § 2, and Congress had conferred exclusive jurisdiction on this Court.  28 U. S. C. § 1251(a)(1).  The claim against the United States, however, could only be maintained under the Quiet Title Act, which vested exclusive jurisdiction in the district courts.  28 U. S. C. § 1346(f).  In spite of the general language placing all quiet title actions against the United States in the district courts, we concluded that Congress did not intend to divest this Court of its jurisdiction.  Thus, while Congress clearly intended that States be able to maintain quiet title actions, the   procedural provisions drafted with the private citizen in mind need not be applied with slavish literalness to States. 4
Finally, we cannot ignore the special nature of the lands at issue in this case. The beds of navigable waters pass to the States when they achieve statehood under the constitutional equal footing doctrine, as an incident of sovereignty. Montana v. United States, 450 U.S. 544, 551 (1981); Pollard's Lessee v. Hagan, 3 How. 212 (1845). And the lands are of critical importance to North Dakota, which holds them in its sovereign capacity in trust for its citizens. 5 Congress has recognized the special importance of these lands in the Submerged Lands Act, 67 Stat. 30, 43 U. S. C. § 1301 et seq. 6 Until today, the Court too has shown special sensitivity to the importance of these lands, recognizing the strongest presumption that Congress will not act to convey the lands rather than to preserve them for the State.  Montana v. United States, supra, at 552. Given that solicitude for the State's ownership of these lands, it becomes extremely difficult to believe that Congress intended to deny States dominion over these lands by silently extinguishing their right to quiet title. I would affirm the judgment below.
