OPINION
JUSTICE POWELL announced the judgment of the Court in Part VI and delivered the opinion of the Court with respect to Parts I and II and an opinion with respect to Parts III, IV, and V, in which THE CHIEF JUSTICE joins.
These cases, like City of Akron v. Akron Center for Reproductive Health, Inc., ante, p. 416, and Simopoulos v. Virginia, post, p. 506, present questions as to the validity of state statutes or local ordinances regulating the performance of abortions.
I
Planned Parenthood Association of Kansas City, Missouri, Inc., two physicians who perform abortions, and an abortion clinic (plaintiffs) filed a complaint in the District Court for the Western District of Missouri challenging, as unconstitutional, several sections of the Missouri statutes regulating the performance of abortions. The sections relevant here include Mo. Rev. Stat. § 188.025 (Supp. 1982), requiring that abortions after 12 weeks of pregnancy be performed in a hospital; 1 § 188.047, requiring a pathology report for each abortion performed; 2 § 188.030.3, requiring the presence of a second   physician during abortions performed after viability; 3 and § 188.028, requiring minors to secure parental or judicial consent. 4
After hearing testimony from a number of expert witnesses, the District Court invalidated all of these sections except the pathology requirement.  483 F.Supp. 679, 699-701 (1980). 5 The Court of Appeals for the Eighth Circuit reversed the District Court's judgment with respect to § 188.028, thereby upholding the requirement that a minor secure parental or judicial consent to an abortion. It also held that the District Court erred in sustaining § 188.047, the pathology requirement.  The District Court's judgment with respect to the second-physician requirement was affirmed, and the case was remanded for further proceedings and findings relating to the second-trimester hospitalization requirement.  655 F.2d 848, 872-873 (1981). On remand, the District Court adhered to its holding that the second-trimester hospitalization requirement was unconstitutional.  The Court of Appeals affirmed this judgment.  664 F.2d 687, 691 (1981). We granted certiorari.  456 U.S. 988 (1982).
The Court today in City of Akron, ante, at 426-431, has stated fully the principles that govern judicial review of state statutes regulating abortions, and these need not be repeated here.  With these principles in mind, we turn to the statutes at issue.
II
In City of Akron, we invalidated a city ordinance requiring physicians to perform all second-trimester abortions at general or special hospitals accredited by the Joint Commission on Accreditation of Hospitals (JCAH) or by the American Osteopathic Association.  Ante, at 431-432.  Missouri's hospitalization requirements are similar to those enacted by Akron, as all second-trimester abortions must be performed in general, acute-care facilities. 6 For the reasons stated in City of Akron, we held that such   a requirement "unreasonably infringes upon a woman's constitutional right to obtain an abortion." Ante, at 439.  For the same reasons, we affirm the Court of Appeals' judgment that § 188.025 is unconstitutional.
III
We turn now to the State's second-physician requirement.  In Roe v. Wade, 410 U.S. 113 (1973), the Court recognized that   the State has a compelling interest in the life of a viable fetus: " State in promoting its interest in the potentiality of human life may, if it chooses, regulate, and even proscribe, abortion except where it is necessary, in appropriate medical judgment, for the preservation of the life or health of the mother." Id., at 164-165. See Colautti v. Franklin, 439 U.S. 379, 386-387 (1979); Beal v. Doe, 432 U.S. 438, 445-446 (1977). Several of the Missouri statutes undertake such regulation. Postviability abortions are proscribed except when necessary to preserve the life or the health of the woman. Mo. Rev. Stat. § 188.030.1 (Supp. 1982).  The State also forbids the use of abortion procedures fatal to the viable fetus unless alternative procedures pose a greater risk to the health of the woman. § 188.030.2.
The statutory provision at issue in this case requires the attendance of a second physician at the abortion of a viable fetus.  § 188.030.3.  This section requires that the second physician "take all reasonable steps in keeping with good medical practice . . . to preserve the life and health of the viable unborn child; provided that it does not pose an increased risk to the life or health of the woman." See n. 3, supra.  It also provides that the second physician "shall take control of and provide immediate medical care for a child born as a result of the abortion."
The lower courts invalidated § 188.030.3. 7 The plaintiffs, respondents   here on this issue, urge affirmance on the grounds that the second-physician requirement distorts the traditional doctor-patient relationship, and is both impractical and costly.  They note that Missouri does not require two physicians in attendance for any other medical or surgical procedure, including childbirth or delivery of a premature infant.
The first physician's primary concern will be the life and health of the woman.  Many third-trimester abortions in Missouri will be emergency operations, 8 as the State permits these late abortions only when they are necessary to preserve the life or the health of the woman. It is not unreasonable for the State to assume that during the operation the first physician's attention and skills will be directed to preserving the woman's health, and not to protecting the actual life of those fetuses who survive the abortion procedure.  Viable fetuses will be in immediate and grave danger because of their premature birth. A second physician, in situations where Missouri permits third-trimester abortions, may be of assistance to the woman's physician in preserving the health and life of the child.
By giving immediate medical attention to a fetus that is delivered alive, the second physician will assure that the State's interests are protected more fully than the first physician alone would be able to do. And given the compelling interest that the State has in preserving life, we cannot say that the Missouri requirement of a second physician in those unusual circumstances where Missouri permits a third-trimester abortion is unconstitutional.  Preserving the life of a viable fetus that is aborted may not often be possible, 9 but the State legitimately may choose to provide safeguards for the comparatively few instances of live birth that occur. We believe the second-physician requirement reasonably furthers the State's compelling interest in protecting the lives of viable fetuses, and we reverse the judgment of the Court of Appeals holding that § 188.030.3 is unconstitutional.
IV
In regulating hospital services within the State, Missouri requires that " tissue surgically removed with the exception of such tissue as tonsils, adenoids, hernial sacs and prepuces, shall be examined by a pathologist, either on the premises or by arrangement outside of the hospital." 13 Mo. Admin. Code § 50-20.030(3)(A)7 (1977).  With respect to abortions, whether performed in hospitals or in some other facility, § 188.047 requires the pathologist to "file a copy of the tissue report with the state division of health . . . ." See n. 2, supra.  The pathologist also is required to "provide a copy of the report to the abortion facility or hospital in which the abortion was performed or induced." Thus, Missouri appears to require that tissue following abortions, as well as from almost all other surgery performed in hospitals, must be submitted to a pathologist, not merely examined by the performing doctor. The narrow question before us is whether the State lawfully also may require the tissue removed following abortions performed in clinics as well as in hospitals to be submitted to a pathologist.
On its face and in effect, § 188.047 is reasonably related to generally accepted medical standards and " important health-related state concerns." City of Akron, ante, at 430.  As the Court of Appeals recognized, pathology examinations are clearly "useful and even necessary in some cases," because "abnormalities in the tissue may warn of serious, possibly fatal disorders." 655 F.2d, at 870. 10 As a rule, it is accepted medical practice to submit all tissue to the examination of a pathologist. 11 This is particularly important following abortion, because questions remain as to the long-range complications and their effect on subsequent pregnancies. See App. 72-73 (testimony of Dr. Willard Cates, Jr.); Levin, Schoenbaum, Monson, Stubblefield, & Ryan, Association of Induced Abortion with Subsequent Pregnancy Loss, 243 J. A. M. A. 2495, 2499 (1980). Recorded pathology reports, in concert with abortion complication reports, provide a statistical basis for studying those complications.  Cf.  Planned Parenthood of Central Missouri v. Danforth, 428 U.S. 52, 81 (1976).
Plaintiffs argue that the physician performing the abortion is as qualified as a pathologist to make the examination.  This argument disregards the fact that Missouri requires a pathologist -- not the performing physician -- to examine tissue after almost every type of surgery.  Although this requirement is in a provision relating to surgical procedures in hospitals, many of the same procedures included within the Missouri statute customarily are performed also in outpatient clinics. No reason has been suggested why the prudence required in a hospital should not be equally appropriate in such a clinic. Indeed, there may be good reason to impose stricter standards in this respect on clinics performing abortions than on hospitals. 12 As the testimony in the District Court indicates, medical opinion differs widely on this question.  See 4 Record 623; 5 Record 749-750, 798-800, 845-847; n. 11, supra.  There is substantial support for Missouri's requirement.  In this case, for example, Dr. Bernard Nathanson, a widely experienced abortion practitioner, testified that he requires a pathologist examination after each of the 60,000 abortions performed under his direction at the New York Center for Reproductive and Sexual Health.  He considers it "absolutely necessary to obtain a pathologist's report on each and every specimen of tissue removed from abortion or for that matter from any other surgical procedure which involves the removal of tissue from the human body." App. 143-144.  See also id., at 146-147 (testimony of Dr. Keitges); 5 Record 798-799 (testimony of Dr. Schmidt). 13
In weighing the balance between protection of a woman's health and the comparatively small additional cost of a pathologist's examination, we cannot say that the Constitution requires that a State subordinate its interest in health to minimize to this extent the cost of abortions. Even in the early  weeks of pregnancy, " regulations that have no significant impact on the woman's exercise of her right  decide to have an abortion] may be permissible where justified by important state health objectives." City of Akron, ante, at 430.  See Danforth, supra, at 80-81. We think the cost of a tissue examination does not significantly burden a pregnant woman's abortion decision.  The estimated cost of compliance for plaintiff Reproductive Health Services was $ 19.40 per abortion performed, 483 F.Supp., at 700, n. 48, and in light of the substantial benefits that a pathologist's examination can have, this small cost clearly is justified.  In Danforth, this Court unanimously upheld Missouri's recordkeeping requirement as "useful to the State's interest in protecting the health of its female citizens, and  a resource that is relevant to decisions involving medical experience and judgment," 428 U.S., at 81. 14 We view the requirement for a pathology report as comparable and as a relatively insignificant burden.  Accordingly, we reverse the judgment of the Court of Appeals on this issue.
V
As we noted in City of Akron, the relevant legal standards with respect   to parental-consent requirements are not in dispute.  See ante, at 439; Bellotti v. Baird, 443 U.S. 622, 640-642, 643-644 (1979) (Bellotti II) (plurality opinion); id., at 656-657 (WHITE, J., dissenting). 15   A State's interest in protecting immature minors will sustain a requirement of a consent substitute, either parental or judicial.  It is clear, however, that "the State must provide an alternative procedure whereby a pregnant minor may demonstrate that she is sufficiently mature to make the abortion decision herself or that, despite her immaturity, an abortion would be in her best interests." 16 City of Akron, ante, at 439-440. 17 The issue here is one purely of statutory construction: whether Missouri provides a judicial alternative that is consistent with these established legal standards. 18
The Missouri statute, § 188.028.2, 19 in relevant part, provides:
"(4) In the decree, the court shall for good cause:
"   (a) Grant the petition for majority rights for the purpose of consenting to the abortion; or
"(b) Find the abortion to be in the best interests of the minor and give judicial consent to the abortion, setting forth the grounds for so finding; or
"(c) Deny the petition, setting forth the grounds on which the petition is denied."
On its face, § 188.028.2(4) authorizes Juvenile Courts 20 to choose among any of the alternatives outlined in the section. The Court of Appeals concluded that a denial of the petition permitted in subsection (c) "would initially require the court to find that the minor was not emancipated and was not mature enough to make her own decision and that an abortion was not in her best interests." 655 F.2d, at 858. Plaintiffs contend that this interpretation is unreasonable.  We do not agree.
Where fairly possible, courts should construe a statute to avoid a danger of unconstitutionality.  The Court of Appeals was aware, if the statute provides discretion to deny permission to a minor for any "good cause," that arguably it would violate the principles that this Court has set forth.  Ibid.  It recognized, however, that before exercising any option, the Juvenile Court must receive evidence on "the emotional development, maturity, intellect and understanding of the minor." Mo. Rev. Stat. § 188.028.2(3) (Supp. 1982).  The court then reached the logical conclusion that "findings and the ultimate denial of the petition must be supported by a showing of 'good cause.'"  655 F.2d, at 858. The Court of Appeals reasonably found that a court could not deny a petition "for good cause" unless it first found -- after having received the required evidence -- that the minor was not mature enough to make her own decision.  See Bellotti II, 443 U.S., at 643-644, 647-648 (plurality opinion).  We conclude that the Court of Appeals correctly interpreted the statute and that § 188.028, as interpreted, avoids any constitutional infirmities. 21
VI
The judgment of the Court of Appeals, insofar as it invalidated Missouri's second-trimester hospitalization requirement and upheld the State's parental- and judicial-consent provision, is affirmed.  The judgment invalidating the requirement of a pathology report for all abortions and the requirement that a second physician attend the abortion of any viable fetus is reversed.  We vacate the judgment upholding an award of attorney's fees for all hours expended by plaintiffs' attorneys and remand for proceedings consistent with Hensley v. Eckerhart, 461 U.S. 424 (1983).
It is so ordered.
<concur author="BLACKMUN" text="TRUE">
CONCUR BY: BLACKMUN (In Part); O'CONNOR (In Part)
DISSENT BY: BLACKMUN (In Part); O'CONNOR (In Part)
JUSTICE BLACKMUN, with whom JUSTICE BRENNAN, JUSTICE MARSHALL, and JUSTICE STEVENS join, concurring in part and dissenting in part.
The Court's decision today in Akron v. Akron Center for Reproductive Health, Inc., ante, p. 416, invalidates the city of Akron's hospitalization requirement and a host of other provisions that infringe on a woman's decision to terminate her pregnancy through abortion. I agree that Missouri's hospitalization requirement is  invalid under the Akron analysis, and I join Parts I and II of JUSTICE POWELL's opinion in the present cases.  I do not agree, however, that the remaining Missouri statutes challenged in these cases satisfy the constitutional standards set forth in Akron and the Court's prior decisions.
I
Missouri law provides that whenever an abortion is performed, a tissue sample must be submitted to a "board eligible or certified pathologist" for a report.  Mo. Rev. Stat. § 188.047 (Supp. 1982).  This requirement applies to first-trimester abortions as well as to those performed later in pregnancy. Our past decisions establish that the performance of abortions during the first trimester must be left "'free of interference by the State.'" Akron, ante, at 430, quoting Roe v. Wade, 410 U.S. 113, 163 (1973). As we have noted in Akron, this does not mean that every regulation touching upon first-trimester abortions is constitutionally impermissible.  But to pass constitutional muster, regulations affecting first-trimester abortions must "have no significant impact on the woman's exercise of her "right" and must be "justified by important state health objectives." Akron, ante, at 430; see ante, at 489-490.
Missouri's requirement of a pathologist's report is not justified by important health objectives.  Although pathology examinations may be "useful and even necessary in some cases," ante, at 487, Missouri requires more than a pathology examination and a pathology report; it demands that the examination be performed and the report prepared by a "board eligible or certified pathologist" rather than by the attending physician. Contrary to JUSTICE POWELL's assertion, ibid., this requirement of a report by a pathologist is not in accord with "generally accepted medical standards." The routine and accepted medical practice is for the attending physician to perform a gross (visual) examination of any tissue removed during an abortion. Only if the physician detects abnormalities is there a need to send a tissue sample to a pathologist. The American College of Obstetricians and Gynecologists (ACOG) does not recommend an examination by a pathologist in every case:
"In the situation of elective termination of pregnancy, the attending physician should record a description of the gross products.  Unless definite embryonic or fetal parts can be identified, the products of elective interruptions   of pregnancy must be submitted to a pathologist for gross and microscopic examination.
. . . .
". . . Aspirated tissue should be examined to ensure the presence of villi or fetal parts prior to the patient's release from the facility.  If villi or fetal parts are not identified with certainty, the tissue specimen must be sent for further pathologic examination . . . ." ACOG, Standards for Obstetric-Gynecologic Services 52, 54 (5th ed. 1982). 1
Nor does the National Abortion Federation believe that such an examination is necessary:
"All tissue must be examined grossly at the time of the abortion procedure by a physician or trained assistant and the results recorded in the chart. In the absence of visible fetal parts or placenta upon gross examination, obtained tissue may be examined under a low power microscope for the detection of villi.  If this examination is inconclusive, the tissue should be sent to the nearest suitable pathology laboratory for microscopic examination." National Abortion Federation Standards 6 (1981) (emphasis deleted).
As the Court of Appeals pointed out, there was expert testimony at trial that a nonpathologist physician is as capable of performing an adequate gross examination as is a pathologist, and that the "abnormalities which are of concern" are readily detectable by a physician.  655 F.2d 848, 871, n. 37 (CA8 1981); see App. 135. 2 While a pathologist may be better able to perform a microscopic examination, Missouri law does not require a microscopic examination unless "fetal parts or placenta are not identified." 13 Mo. Admin. Code § 50-151.030(1) (1981).  Thus, the effect of the Missouri statute is to require a pathologist to perform the initial gross examination, which is normally the responsibility of the attending physician and which will often make the pathologist's services unnecessary.
On the record before us, I must conclude that the State has not "met its burden of demonstrating that   important health-related State concerns." Akron, ante, at 430. 3 There has been no showing that tissue examinations by a pathologist do more to protect health than examinations by a nonpathologist physician.  Missouri does not require pathologists' reports for any other surgical procedures performed in clinics, or for minor surgery performed in hospitals.  13 Mo. Admin. Code § 50-20.030(3)(A)(7) (1977).  Moreover, I cannot agree with JUSTICE POWELL that Missouri's pathologist requirement has "no significant impact" ante, at 489, on a woman's exercise of her right to an abortion. It is undisputed that this requirement may increase the cost of a first-trimester abortion by as much as $ 40.  See 483 F.Supp. 679, 700, n. 48 (WD Mo. 1980). Although this increase may seem insignificant from the Court's comfortable perspective, I cannot say that it is equally insignificant to every woman seeking an abortion. For the woman on welfare or the unemployed teenager, this additional cost may well put the price of an abortion beyond reach. 4 Cf.  Harper v. Virginia Board of Elections, 383 U.S. 663, 668 (1966) ($ 1.50 poll tax "excludes those unable to pay"); Burns v. Ohio, 360 U.S. 252, 255, 257 (1959) ($ 20 docket fee " access" to appellate review for indigents).
In Planned Parenthood of Central Missouri v. Danforth, 428 U.S. 52, 81 (1976), the Court warned that the minor recordkeeping requirements upheld in that case "perhaps  impermissible limits." Today in Akron, we have struck down restrictions on first-trimester abortions that "may in some cases add to the cost of providing abortions." Ante, at 447-448; see ante, at 449-451. Missouri's requirement of a pathologist's report unquestionably adds significantly to the cost of providing abortions, and Missouri has not shown that it serves any substantial health-related purpose.  Under these circumstances, I would hold that constitutional limits have been exceeded.
II
In Missouri, an abortion may be performed after viability only if necessary to preserve the life or health of the woman. Mo. Rev. Stat. § 188.030.1 (Supp. 1982).  When a postviability abortion is performed, Missouri law provides that "there  in attendance a  physician . . . who shall take control of and provide immediate medical care for a child born as a result of the abortion." Mo. Rev. Stat. § 188.030.3 (Supp. 1982).  The Court recognized in Roe v. Wade, 410 U.S., at 164-165, that a State's interests in preserving maternal health and protecting the potentiality of human life may justify regulation and even prohibition of postviability abortions, except those necessary to preserve the life and health of the mother.  But regulations governing postviability abortions, like those at any other stage of pregnancy, must be "tailored to the recognized state interests." Id., at 165; see H. L. v. Matheson, 450 U.S. 398, 413 (1981) ("statute plainly serves important state interests,  is narrowly drawn to protect only those interests"); Roe, 410 U.S., at 155 ("legislative enactments must be narrowly drawn to express only the legitimate state interests at stake").
A
The second-physician requirement is upheld in these cases on the basis that it "reasonably furthers the State's compelling interest in protecting the lives of viable fetuses." Ante, at 486.  While I agree that a second physician indeed may aid in preserving the life of a fetus born alive, this type of aid is possible only when the abortion method used is one that may result in a live birth. Although Missouri ordinarily requires a physician performing a postviability abortion to use the abortion method most likely to preserve fetal life, this restriction does not apply when this method "would present a greater risk to the life and health of the woman." Mo. Rev. Stat. § 188.030.2 (Supp. 1982).
The District Court found that the dilatation and evacuation (D&E) method of abortion entails no chance of fetal survival, and that it will nevertheless be the method of choice for some women who need postviability abortions. In some cases, in other words, maternal health considerations will preclude the use of procedures that might result in a live birth.  483 F.Supp., at 694. 5 When a D&E abortion is performed, the second physician can do nothing to further the State's compelling interest in protecting potential life.  His presence is superfluous.  The second-physician requirement thus is overbroad and "imposes a burden on women in cases where the burden is not justified by any possibility of survival of the fetus." 655 F.2d, at 865-866.
JUSTICE POWELL apparently believes that the State's interest in preserving potential life justifies the State in requiring a second physician at all postviability abortions because some methods other than D&E may result in live births.  But this fact cannot justify requiring a second physician to attend an abortion at which the chance of a live birth is nonexistent.  The choice of method presumably will be made in advance, 6 and any need for a second physician disappears when the woman's health requires that the choice be D&E. Because the statute is not tailored to protect the State's legitimate interests, I would hold it invalid. 7
B
In addition, I would hold that the statute's failure to provide a clear exception for emergency situations renders it unconstitutional.  As JUSTICE POWELL recognizes, ante, at 485, n. 8, an emergency may arise in which delay could be dangerous to the life or health of the woman. A second physician may not always be available in such a situation; yet the statute appears to require one.  It states, in unqualified terms, that a postviability abortion "shall be performed . . . only when there is in attendance" a second physician who "shall take control of" any child born as a result of the abortion, and it imposes certain duties on "the physician required by this section to be in attendance." Mo. Rev. Stat. § 188.030.3 (Supp. 1982) (emphasis added).  By requiring the attendance of a second physician even when the resulting delay may be harmful to the health of the pregnant woman, the statute impermissibly fails to make clear "that the woman's life and health must always prevail over the fetus' life and health when they conflict." Colautti v. Franklin, 439 U.S. 379, 400 (1979).
JUSTICE POWELL attempts to cure this defect by asserting that the final clause of the statute, requiring the two physicians to "take all reasonable steps . . . to preserve the life and health of the viable unborn child; provided that it does not pose an increased risk to the life or health of the woman," could be construed to permit emergency postviability abortions without a second physician.  Ante, at 485, n. 8.  This construction is contrary to the plain language of the statute; the clause upon which JUSTICE POWELL relies refers to the duties of both physicians during the performance of the abortion, but it in no way suggests that the second physician may be dispensed with.
Moreover, since JUSTICE POWELL's proposed construction is not binding on the   courts of Missouri, 8 a physician performing an emergency postviability abortion cannot rely on it with any degree of confidence.  The statute thus remains impermissibly vague; it fails to inform the physician whether he may proceed with a postviability abortion in an emergency, or whether he must wait for a second physician even if the woman's life or health will be further imperiled by the delay.  This vagueness may well have a severe chilling effect on the physician who perceives the patient's need for a postviability abortion. In Colautti v. Franklin, we considered a statute that failed to specify whether it " the physician to make a 'trade-off' between the woman's health and additional percentage points of fetal survival." 439 U.S., at 400. The Court held there that "where conflicting duties of this magnitude are involved, the State, at the least, must proceed with greater precision before it may subject a physician to possible criminal sanctions." Id., at 400-401. 9 I would apply that reasoning here, and hold Missouri's second-physician requirement invalid on this ground as well. 10
III
Missouri law prohibits the performance of an abortion on an unemancipated minor absent parental consent or a court order.  Mo. Rev. Stat. § 188.028 (Supp. 1982).
Until today, the Court has never upheld "a requirement of a consent substitute, either parental or judicial," ante, at 491.  In Planned Parenthood of Central Missouri v. Danforth, 428 U.S., at 74, the Court invalidated a parental-consent requirement on the ground that "the State does not have the constitutional authority to give a third party an absolute, and possibly arbitrary, veto over the decision of the physician and his patient to terminate the patient's pregnancy, regardless of the reason for withholding the consent." In Bellotti v. Baird, 443 U.S. 622 (1979) (Bellotti II), eight Justices agreed that a Massachusetts statute permitting a judicial veto of a mature minor's decision to have an abortion was unconstitutional.  See id., at 649-650 (opinion of POWELL, J.); id., at 654-656 (opinion of STEVENS, J.).  Although four Justices stated in Bellotti II that an appropriately structured judicial-consent requirement would be constitutional, id., at 647-648 (opinion of POWELL, J.), this statement was not necessary to the result of the case and did not command a majority.  Four other Justices concluded that any judicial-consent statute would suffer from the same flaw the Court identified in Danforth: it would give a third party an absolute veto over the decision of the physician and his patient. 443 U.S., at 655-656 (opinion of STEVENS, J.).
I continue to adhere to the views expressed by JUSTICE STEVENS in Bellotti II:
"It is inherent in the right to make the abortion decision that the right may be exercised without public scrutiny and in defiance of the contrary opinion of the sovereign or other third parties. . . .  As a practical matter, I would suppose that the need to commence judicial proceedings in order to obtain a legal abortion would impose a burden at least as great as, and probably greater than, that imposed on the minor child by the need to obtain the consent of the parent. Moreover, once this burden is met, the only standard provided for the judge's decision is the best interest of the minor.  That standard  provides little real guidance to the judge, and his decision must necessarily reflect personal and societal values and mores whose enforcement upon the minor -- particularly when contrary to her own informed and reasonable decision -- is fundamentally at odds with privacy interests underlying the constitutional protection afforded to her decision." Ibid. (footnote omitted).
Because Mo. Rev. Stat. § 188.028 (Supp. 1982) permits a parental or   judicial veto of a minor's decision to obtain an abortion, I would hold it unconstitutional.
<concur author="O'CONNOR" text="TRUE">
JUSTICE O'CONNOR, with whom JUSTICE WHITE and JUSTICE REHNQUIST join, concurring in the judgment in part and dissenting in part.
For reasons stated in my dissent in Akron v. Akron Center for Reproductive Health, ante, p. 416, I believe that the second-trimester hospitalization requirement imposed by § 188.025 does not impose an undue burden on the limited right to undergo an abortion. Assuming, arguendo, that the requirement was an undue burden, it would nevertheless "reasonably  to the preservation and protection of maternal health." Roe v. Wade, 410 U.S. 113, 163 (1973). I therefore dissent from the Court's judgment that the requirement is unconstitutional.
I agree that the second-physician requirement contained in § 188.030.3 is constitutional because the State possesses a compelling interest in protecting and preserving fetal life, but I believe that this state interest is extant throughout pregnancy. I therefore concur in the judgment of the Court.
I agree that the pathology-report requirement imposed by § 188.047 is constitutional because it imposes no undue burden on the limited right to undergo an abortion. Because I do not believe that the validity of this requirement is contingent in any way on the trimester of pregnancy in which it is imposed, I concur in the judgment of the Court.
Assuming, arguendo, that the State cannot impose a parental veto on the decision of a minor to undergo an abortion, I agree that the parental-consent provision contained in § 188.028 is constitutional.  However, I believe that the provision is valid because it imposes no undue burden on any right that a minor may have to undergo an abortion. I concur in the judgment of the Court on this issue.
I also concur in the Court's decision to vacate and remand on the issue of attorney's fees in light of Hensley v. Eckerhart, 461 U.S. 424 (1983).
