OPINION
JUSTICE STEVENS delivered the opinion of the Court.
Petitioners, Puerto Rican educational officials, demoted respondents from nontenured supervisory positions to teaching or lower-level administrative posts in the public school system because of respondents' political affiliations.  Shortly before Puerto Rico's 1-year statute of limitations would have expired, a class action was filed against petitioners on respondents' behalf under 42 U. S. C. § 1983. Subsequently class certification was denied because the class was not sufficiently numerous.  The parties agree that the statute of limitations was tolled during the pendency of   the § 1983 class action, but they disagree as to the effect of the tolling. 1 Did the 1-year period begin to run anew when class certification was denied, or was it merely suspended during the pendency of the class action? We must decide whether the answer is provided by Puerto Rican law or by federal law.
On or after June 17, 1977, each of the 36 respondents 2 received a written notice of demotion.  On Monday, June 19, 1978, Jose Ortiz Rivera, suing on behalf of respondents and various other demoted and discharged employees, filed a class action against petitioners asserting claims under 42 U. S. C. § 1983 and under certain Puerto Rican statutes.  On August 21, 1978, the District Court denied class certification on the ground that the membership of the class was not so numerous that joinder was impracticable.  App. 16a-17a.  In January 1979, the respondents and a number of other unnamed class members filed individual actions under § 1983 asserting the same constitutional claim that Ortiz Rivera had previously advanced on their behalf.  App. 2a-4a. 3 Each of respondents' individual actions was filed more than one year after the claims accrued, even excluding the period during which the class action was pending, but less than one year after the denial of class certification. Thus, if the running of the limitations period was merely suspended by the class action, then respondents' actions are time-barred. If it began to run anew, these actions are timely.
Fifty-five individual actions were consolidated for trial on the liability issue in January 1981.  The jury found against petitioners, and the District Court entered judgment ordering reinstatement with backpay.  514 F.Supp. 339 (PR 1981); App. 108a-111a, 114a-116a, 121a-124a.  On appeal, the Court of Appeals modified the remedy in some respects, reversing the award of backpay on Eleventh Amendment grounds and ordering some of the individual cases dismissed as time-barred. It rejected petitioners' argument that the claims of the 36 respondents were barred by the statute of limitations. Rivera Fernandez v. Chardon, 681 F.2d 42 (CA1 1982); App. 158a. 4
Because there is no federal statute of limitations applicable to § 1983 claims, the Court of Appeals looked to Puerto Rican law to determine what the limitations period is, whether that period was tolled, and the effect of the tolling. The parties do not dispute the court's conclusion that civil rights actions are governed by the 1-year period specified in P. R. Laws Ann., Tit. 31, § 5298(2) (1968).  Nor do petitioners challenge the court's conclusion that the statute was tolled during the pendency of the Rivera class action, although they do disagree with the court's reasons.
The Court of Appeals noted that in Puerto Rico it is well settled that   the filing of an action on behalf of a party tolls the statute with regard to that party's identical causes of action.  P. R. Laws Ann., Tit. 31, § 5303 (1968).  It recognized, however, that the Supreme Court of Puerto Rico had not ruled on the question whether a class action would toll the statute for identical claims of the unnamed plaintiffs.  It noted that Puerto Rico had modeled its class-action procedures after the federal practice, and that in American Pipe & Construction Co. v. Utah, 414 U.S. 538 (1974), this Court had interpreted the Federal Rules of Civil Procedure to permit a federal statute of limitations to be tolled between the filing of an asserted class action and the denial of class certification. It concluded that, as a matter of Puerto Rican law, the Puerto Rican Supreme Court would also hold that the statute of limitations was tolled as to unnamed plaintiffs during the pendency of a class action. 681 F.2d, at 50. 5
In deciding what effect the tolling would have, however, the court did not apply the same rule as this Court had applied in American Pipe.  In that case the controlling limitations period was established by a federal statute, the Clayton Act, that expressly provided for suspension when the period was tolled, 414 U.S., at 560-561.In this § 1983 case, however, the Court of Appeals concluded that Puerto Rican law determined the length of the applicable statute of limitations, governed whether the limitations period would be tolled during the pendency of the class action, and established the effect of the tolling. Under the law of Puerto Rico   the statute of limitations begins to run anew when tolling ceases; the plaintiff benefits from the full length of the applicable limitations period. See Feliciano v. Puerto Rico Aqueduct & Sewer Auth., 93 P. R. R. 638, 644 (1966); Heirs of Gorbea v. Portilla, 46 P. R. R. 279, 284 (1934). 6 Recognizing the difference between the common-law rule of suspension and the Puerto Rican "running-anew rule," the Court of Appeals concluded that applying the local rule would not violate any federal policy.  The court further reasoned that its conclusion was consistent with the policies of repose and federalism that this Court had identified in its decisions addressing statute of limitations questions.  681 F.2d, at 50. We granted certiorari.  459 U.S. 987 (1982).
I
The federal civil rights statutes do not provide for a specific statute of limitations, establish rules regarding the tolling of the limitations period, or prescribe the effect of tolling. Under 42 U. S. C. § 1988, the federal cause of action is governed by appropriate "laws of the United States," but if such laws are unsuitable or inadequate, state-law rules are borrowed unless a particular state rule is "inconsistent with the Constitution and laws of the United States." 7 Petitioners argue that American Pipe & Construction Co. v. Utah, supra, established a federal rule of decision that requires suspension rather than renewal whenever a class action in federal court tolls the statute of limitations. Accordingly, they contend that neither § 1988 nor our recent decision in Board of Regents v. Tomanio, 446 U.S. 478 (1980), justified the Court of Appeals' application of the Puerto Rican renewal rule. This argument, by reading more into our decision in American Pipe than the Court actually decided, fails to give full effect to Tomanio.
We begin by restating briefly the principles set forth in Board of Regents v. Tomanio.  In that case the Court held that the plaintiff's § 1983 claim was barred by New York's 3-year statute of limitations, because New York law did not provide for tolling of the statute during the pendency of a related, but independent cause of action. Indeed, "resolution of that issue  virtually foreordained in favor of petitioners by our prior cases." 446 U.S., at 480. Under the reasoning of Robertson v. Wegmann, 436 U.S. 584 (1978); Johnson v. Railway Express Agency, Inc., 421 U.S. 454 (1975); and Monroe v. Pape, 365 U.S. 167 (1961), the Court explained, federal courts were "obligated not only to apply the analogous New York statute of limitations to respondent's federal constitutional claims, but also to apply the New York rule for tolling that statute of limitations." 446 U.S., at 483.
We noted that   in 42 U. S. C. § 1988 Congress had plainly instructed the federal courts to refer to state law when federal law provides no rule of decision for actions brought under § 1983, id., at 484. Because the "chronological length of the limitation period is interrelated with provisions regarding tolling," we reasoned that the practice of "borrowing" state statutes of limitations "logically  rules of tolling." Id., at 485. 8 Finally, we concluded that no federal policy -- deterrence, compensation, uniformity, or federalism -- was offended by the application of state tolling rules.  In light of Congress' willingness to rely on state statutes of limitations in civil rights actions, we specifically rejected the argument that the federal interest in uniformity justified displacement of state tolling rules. 9
II
It is true, as petitioners argue, that Tomanio did not involve a class action, nor did it present any claim that an established federal rule of decision governed the tolling of the statute of limitations, making resort to state law unnecessary.  Petitioners contend that in American Pipe this Court "established a uniform federal procedural rule applicable to class actions brought in the federal courts." Brief for Petitioners 13.  In petitioners' view, that federal rule encompasses two requirements: (1) the statute of limitations is tolled by the filing of an asserted class action, and (2) if class certification is subsequently denied because the asserted class is insufficiently numerous, then the limitations period has merely been suspended; it does not begin to run anew. Petitioners, respondents, and the Court of Appeals all agree that the statute of limitations was tolled during the period between the filing of Jose Ortiz Rivera's action on behalf of the class on June 19, 1978, and the District Court's denial of class certification on August 21, 1978. 10 We must examine the reasoning of American Pipe, however, to determine whether that decision embodies the second requirement that petitioners urge us to recognize.
In American Pipe the Court held that the antitrust treble-damages claims asserted by a group of municipalities and other public agencies in Utah were not time-barred. Although the claims had arisen in the early 1960's, they were not foreclosed by the 4-year period of limitations prescribed in § 4B of the Clayton Act 11 because the statute had been tolled on three successive occasions: from March 10, 1964, to June 19, 1964, while federal criminal charges were pending   against the defendants; from June 23, 1964, until May 24, 1968, while a civil injunctive proceeding filed by the Federal Government was pending; and from May 13, 1969, until December 4, 1969, while a class action brought by the State of Utah was pending.  During the two earlier periods when Federal Government litigation was pending, and for one year thereafter, the Clayton Act expressly provided for tolling of the uniform federal statute of limitations. 12 The Court held that the subsequent class action had also tolled the statute for the claims of the unnamed plaintiffs until class certification was denied.
The Court reasoned that, under the circumstances, the unnamed plaintiffs should be treated as though they had been named plaintiffs during the pendency of the class action. Otherwise, members of a class would have an incentive to protect their interests by intervening in the class action as named plaintiffs prior to the decision on class certification -- a "needless duplication of motions" that would "deprive Rule 23 class actions of the efficiency and economy of litigation which is a principal purpose of the procedure." 414 U.S., at 553-554; see id., at 555-556. The Court explained that tolling the limitations period during the pendency of an antitrust class action did not impair the policies underlying statutes of limitations.  Id., at 554-555.
In order to determine "the precise effect the commencement of the class action had on the relevant limitation period," the Court referred to the terms of the underlying statute of limitations. It stated that § 5(b) of the Clayton Act suspends the statute of limitations during the pendency of Federal Government antitrust litigation based on the same subject matter.  By analogy, the Court concluded that suspension would also be appropriate during the pendency of an asserted federal class action prior to denial of certification.  Id., at 560-561. Since suspension was adequate to preserve all of the plaintiffs' claims -- they were filed only eight days after the denial of class certification -- there was no need to consider whether any different rule might have been appropriate. 13
In American Pipe, federal law defined the basic limitations period, federal procedural policies supported the tolling of the statute during the pendency of the class action, and a particular federal statute provided the basis for deciding that the tolling had the effect of suspending the limitations period. No question of state law was presented.  In a § 1983 action, however, Congress has specifically directed the courts, in the absence of controlling federal law, to apply state statutes of limitations and state tolling rules unless they are "inconsistent with the Constitution and laws of the United States." 42 U. S. C. § 1988. American Pipe does not answer the question whether, in a § 1983 case in which the filing of a class action has tolled the statute of limitations until class certification is denied, the tolling effect is suspension rather than renewal or extension of the period.  American Pipe simply asserts a federal interest in assuring the efficiency and economy of the class-action procedure.  After class certification is denied, that federal interest is vindicated as long as each unnamed plaintiff is given as much time to intervene or file a separate action 14 as he would have under a state savings statute applicable to a party whose action has been dismissed for reasons unrelated to the merits, or, in the absence of a statute, the time provided under the most closely analogous state tolling statute.
The reasoning of American Pipe is thus compatible with the rationale of Tomanio, and the Court of Appeals' decision on the tolling effect of the class action in this case is consistent with both.  The Court of Appeals applied the Puerto Rican rule that, after tolling comes to an end, the statute of limitations begins to run anew. Since the application of this state-law rule gives unnamed class members the same protection as if they had filed actions in their own names which were subsequently dismissed, the federal interest set forth in American Pipe is fully protected. 15
The Court of Appeals correctly rejected the argument that American Pipe establishes a uniform federal rule of decision that mandates suspension rather than renewal whenever a federal class action tolls a statute of limitations. As we wrote in Robertson v. Wegmann, "§ 1988 quite clearly instructs us to refer to state statutes; it does not say that state law is to be accepted or rejected based solely on which side is advantaged thereby." 436 U.S., at 593. Congress has decided that § 1983 class actions brought in different States, like individual actions under § 1983, will be governed by differing statutes of limitations and differing rules regarding tolling and tolling effect unless those state rules are inconsistent with federal law. Until Congress enacts a federal statute of limitations to govern § 1983 litigation, comparable to the statute it ultimately enacted to solve the analogous problems presented by borrowing state law in federal antitrust litigation, 16 federal courts must continue the practice of "limitations borrowing" outlined in Tomanio.
The judgment of the Court of Appeals is
Affirmed.
<dissent author="REHNQUIST" text="TRUE">
DISSENT BY: REHNQUIST
JUSTICE REHNQUIST, with whom JUSTICE WHITE and JUSTICE POWELL join, dissenting.
Title 42 U. S. C. § 1988 embodies a congressional determination that the laws of the several States provide the most suitable procedural and remedial rules for application in actions brought under the federal civil rights laws.  In the words of the statute, "in all cases  where  are not adapted to the object, or are deficient in the provisions necessary to furnish suitable remedies and punish offenses against law, the common law, as modified and changed by the constitution and statutes of the State wherein the court having jurisdiction of such civil or criminal cause is held . . . shall be extended to and govern the said courts in the trial and disposition of the cause . . . ."
We frequently have recognized "the generally interstitial character of federal law," Richards v. United States, 369 U.S. 1, 7 (1962). Because of this, federal courts frequently must look to "the common law, as modified and changed by the constitution and statutes of the State wherein the court" is situated.  If, however, there is federal law "adapted to the object" of the civil rights laws, § 1988 commands that federal courts apply that law in § 1983 actions.
The question in this case is whether there is any federal rule of law applicable to the tolling of limitations periods during the pendency of a class action brought under Federal Rule of Civil Procedure 23.  If there is, then we must depart from the general rule of reference to state law in actions brought under the civil rights laws.  This inquiry turns principally on the meaning of our decision in American Pipe & Construction Co. v. Utah, 414 U.S. 538 (1974). While the Court adopts a plausible, albeit narrow, reading of the opinion in that case, I believe the opinion is more fairly read in a somewhat broader manner.  Adopting this construction, I conclude that the decision recognizes a federal rule of tolling applicable to class actions brought under Federal Rule of Civil Procedure 23, and that this rule is made applicable by § 1988 to claims brought under § 1983.
In American Pipe the Court rejected the claim that antitrust claims brought by various Utah public agencies and municipalities was barred by the 4-year limitations period of § 4B of the Clayton Act, reasoning that the running of this period had been tolled on three occasions.  As to two of these occasions, involving periods during which federal litigation was pending, the Court's reasoning simply applied § 5(b) of the Clayton Act. Section 5(b) explicitly addressed the effect of pending federal litigation, stating unambiguously that " any civil or criminal proceeding is instituted by the United States to prevent, restrain, or punish violations of any of the antitrust laws, . . . the running of the statute of limitations in respect to every private right of action arising under said laws . . . shall be suspended during the pendency thereof and for one year thereafter." 38 Stat. 731, as amended, 15 U. S. C. § 16(i).  The first two periods in which American Pipe held that § 4B had been tolled followed simply from a straightforward application of § 5(b).
As to the third period in which the limitations period was found to be tolled, however, the Clayton Act was utterly silent.  The period in question was one in which a class action brought by the State of Utah had been pending.  The question in American Pipe was whether the pendency of this class action warranted tolling of the Clayton Act's limitations period as to unnamed plaintiffs in the class.  As noted previously, the Clayton Act provided not the slightest guidance on the question whether the pendency of the class action should have had a tolling effect.
Despite the silence of the Clayton Act, the Court concluded that § 4B had been tolled. Since the Clayton Act plainly did not address the question before it, and since the Court made no reference at all to state law, the source of the tolling rule applied by the Court was necessarily Rule 23.  Any doubt as to this fact is removed by the Court's lengthy discussion of the history, purposes, and intent of the Rule.  Likewise, our subsequent decisions have reflected this understanding of the basis for the Court's decision in American Pipe.  See, e. g., Johnson v. Railway Express Agency, Inc., 421 U.S. 454, 467, n. 12 (1975) ("In the light of the history of Fed. Rule Civ. Proc. 23 and the purposes of litigatory efficiency served by class actions, we concluded that the prior filing had a tolling effect").
In interpreting Rule 23 to contain a rule that, during the pendency of a class action, underlying statutes of limitations would be tolled as to individual class members, the Court also addressed the more general question of what effect a decision that the class action could not properly be maintained would have on the tolling of the limitations period. Again, reflecting the fact that it was fashioning a general federal tolling rule grounded on Rule 23, the Court stated:
"We are convinced that the rule most consistent with federal class action procedure must be that the commencement of a class action suspends the applicable statute of limitations as to all asserted members of the class who would have been parties had the suit been permitted to continue as a class action." 414 U.S., at 554 (emphasis added).
There can be little question but that the Court fashioned a rule "consistent with federal class action procedure" requiring suspension of periods of limitation during the pendency of class actions.  To be sure, the Court alluded to the fact that § 5(b) of the Clayton Act provided for "suspension" of the tolling period, rather than some other effect, but the Court rightly did not rely solely on this provision -- which admittedly was entirely inapplicable in the case before it -- in fashioning its general rule of tolling under Rule 23. Rather, it spoke more broadly, stating that the "concept" in § 5(b) requires the conclusion that a pending class action " the running of the limitation period." Id., at 561 (emphasis added).  Since there is a federal rule of tolling in the special area of class actions, this rule should be applied.
The Court today studiously ignores the foregoing statements from American Pipe, as well as the clear inapplicability of § 5(b) to the question decided in American Pipe.  Instead, it offers the argument that " suspension was adequate  to preserve all of the plaintiffs' claims . . . there was no need to consider whether any different rule might have been appropriate." Ante, at 660.  The more orthodox inquiry, however, would seem to be what the Court actually decided then,  not what we now think it needed to decide.  And, as the discussion above plainly demonstrates, American Pipe concluded that Rule 23 contains a tolling rule that suspends (but does nothing more) the running of limitations periods during the pendency of class actions. 1
This determination that the federal rule under Rule 23 is that the pendency of a class action simply suspends the running of a statute of limitations is not the least bit unusual.  Indeed, in many areas of federal law mere suspension is the rule. 2 Moreover, in areas aside from class actions, the Court has recognized that federal tolling rules apply to state statutes of limitations. See, e. g., Holmberg v. Armbrecht, 327 U.S. 392 (1946) (general federal principles of equity must be applied by federal courts in actions involving federal claims, even where state statutes of limitations are borrowed).
The Court is apparently well aware that by rejecting the claim that Rule 23 reflects a uniform federal tolling rule it encourages needless litigation regarding what state tolling rule applies.  Indeed, in this case the Court of Appeals frankly admitted that "there is no discernible state rule" to be applied.  Fernandez v. Chardon, 681 F.2d 42, 50 (CA1 1982). In other situations,   more than one state rule may seem applicable.  It is scarcely a desirable state of affairs for federal courts to spend their time deciding how state courts might decide state tolling rules operate.  These concerns are particularly acute owing to the fact that the question at issue is what statute of limitations ought to be applied.  Few areas of the law stand in greater need of firmly defined, easily applied rules than does the subject of periods of limitations.  A single, uniform federal rule of tolling would provide desirable certainty to both plaintiffs and defendants in § 1983 class actions.
Finally, it is useful to consider the application of the Court's analysis in a situation not far removed from the present case.  If the law of a particular State was that the pendency of a class action did not toll the statute of limitations as to unnamed class members, there seems little question but that the federal rule of American Pipe would nonetheless be applicable.  Having tolled the running of the applicable state statute of limitations, the federal court would be required to decide what effect denial of class certification would have.  The logical source of law, of course, would be the general federal rule, expressed in American Pipe and applied to toll the running of the period in the first place.  The Court, however, would apparently have the trial judge look to state law. Such a course would obviously be more than a little ironic -- the inquiry would appear to be, if state law did have a class-action tolling rule, which it does not, what would state law say with respect to one aspect of that rule's effect?  Such an inquiry would be more appropriate in Alice in Wonderland than as a serious judicial undertaking.
Because the Court partially rejects a rule of law that American Pipe plainly set forth, because it reaches a result that can only encourage needless litigation and uncertainty, and because its analysis leads to anomalous results, I respectfully dissent.
