OPINION
JUSTICE POWELL delivered the opinion of the Court.
This case presents the issue whether, and to what extent, the Fifth Amendment privilege against compelled self-incrimination applies to the business records of a sole proprietorship.
I
Respondent is the owner of several sole proprietorships. In late 1980, a grand jury, during the course of an investigation of corruption in the awarding of county and municipal contracts, served five subpoenas on respondent.  The first two demanded the production of the telephone records of several of respondent's companies and all records pertaining to four bank accounts of respondent and his companies.  The subpoenas were limited to the period between January 1, 1977, and the dates of the subpoenas. The third subpoena demanded the production of a list of virtually all the business records of one of respondent's companies for the period between January 1, 1976, and the date of the subpoena. 1 The fourth subpoena sought production of a similar list of business records belonging to another company. 2 The final subpoena demanded production of all bank statements and cancelled checks of two of respondent's companies that had accounts at a bank in the Grand Cayman Islands.
II
Respondent filed a motion in Federal District Court seeking to quash the subpoenas. The District Court for the District of New Jersey granted his motion except with respect to those documents and records required by law to be kept or disclosed to a public agency. 3 In reaching its decision, the District Court noted that the Government had conceded that the materials sought in the subpoena were or might be incriminating. The court stated that, therefore, "the relevant inquiry is . . . whether the act of producing the documents has communicative aspects which warrant Fifth Amendment protection." In re Grand Jury Empanelled March 19, 1980, 541 F.Supp. 1, 3 (1981) (emphasis in original).  The court found that the act of production would compel respondent to "admit that the records exist, that they are in his possession, and that they are authentic." Ibid.  While not ruling out the possibility that the Government could devise a way to ensure that the act of turning over the documents would not incriminate respondent, the court held that the Government had not made such a showing.
The Court of Appeals for the Third Circuit affirmed.  In re Grand Jury Empanelled March 19, 1980, 680 F.2d 327 (1982). It first addressed the question whether the Fifth Amendment ever applies to the records of a sole proprietorship. After noting that an individual may not assert the Fifth Amendment privilege on behalf of a corporation, partnership, or other collective entity under the holding of Bellis v. United States, 417 U.S. 85 (1974), 4 the Court of Appeals reasoned that the owner of a sole proprietorship acts in a personal rather than a representative capacity.  As a result, the court held that respondent's claim of the privilege was not foreclosed by the reasoning of Bellis.  680 F.2d, at 331.
The Court of Appeals next considered whether the documents at issue in this case are privileged. The court noted that this Court held in Fisher v. United States, 425 U.S. 391 (1976), that the contents of business records ordinarily are   not privileged because they are created voluntarily and without compulsion. The Court of Appeals nevertheless found that respondent's business records were privileged under either of two analyses.  First, the court reasoned that, notwithstanding the holdings in Bellis and Fisher, the business records of a sole proprietorship are no different from the individual owner's personal records.  Noting that Third Circuit cases had held that private papers, although created voluntarily, are protected by the Fifth Amendment, 5 the court accorded the same protection to respondent's business papers. 6 Second, it held that respondent's act of producing the subpoenaed records would have "communicative aspects of its own." 680 F.2d, at 335. The turning over of the subpoenaed documents to the grand jury would admit their existence and authenticity. Accordingly, respondent was entitled to assert his Fifth Amendment privilege rather than produce the subpoenaed documents.
The Government contended that the court should enforce the subpoenas because of the Government's offer not to use respondent's act of production against respondent in any way.  The Court of Appeals noted that no formal request for use immunity under 18 U. S. C. §§ 6002 and 6003 had been made.  In light of this failure, the court held that the District Court did not err in rejecting the Government's attempt to compel delivery of the subpoenaed records.
We granted certiorari to resolve the apparent conflict between the Court of Appeals' holding and the reasoning underlying this Court's holding in Fisher. 461 U.S. 913 (1983). We now affirm in part, reverse in part, and remand for further proceedings.
III
A
The Court in Fisher expressly declined to reach the question whether the Fifth Amendment privilege protects the contents of an individual's tax records in his possession. 7  The rationale underlying our holding in that case is, however, persuasive here.  As we noted in Fisher,   the Fifth Amendment protects the person asserting the privilege only from compelled self-incrimination. 425 U.S., at 396. Where the preparation of business records is voluntary, no compulsion is present. 8 A subpoena that demands production of documents "does not compel oral testimony; nor would it ordinarily compel the taxpayer to restate, repeat, or affirm the truth of the contents of the documents sought." Id., at 409. Applying this reasoning in Fisher, we stated:
" The] Fifth Amendment would not be violated by the fact alone that the papers on their face might incriminate the taxpayer, for the privilege protects a person only against being incriminated by his own compelled testimonial communications.  Schmerber v. California, ; United States v. Wade, ; and Gilbert v. California,  . The accountant's workpapers are not the taxpayer's.  They were not prepared by the taxpayer, and they contain no testimonial declarations by him.  Furthermore, as far as this record demonstrates, the preparation of all of the papers sought in these cases was wholly voluntary, and they cannot be said to contain compelled testimonial evidence, either of the taxpayers or of anyone else.  The taxpayer cannot avoid compliance with the subpoena merely by asserting that the item of evidence which he is required to produce contains incriminating writing, whether his own or that of someone else." Id., at 409-410.
This reasoning applies with equal force here.  Respondent does not contend that he prepared the documents involuntarily 9 or that the subpoena would force him to restate, repeat, or affirm the truth of their contents.  The fact that the records are in respondent's possession is irrelevant to the determination of whether the creation of the records was compelled. We therefore hold that the contents of those records are not privileged. 10
B
Although the contents of a document may not be privileged, the act of producing the document may be.  Id., at 410. A government subpoena compels the holder of the document to perform an act that may have testimonial aspects and an incriminating effect.  As we noted in Fisher:
"Compliance with the subpoena tacitly concedes the existence of the papers demanded and their possession or control by the taxpayer.  It also would indicate the taxpayer's belief that the papers are those described in the subpoena. Curcio v. United States, 354 U.S. 118, 125 (1957). The elements of compulsion are clearly present, but the more difficult issues are whether the tacit averments of the taxpayer are both 'testimonial' and 'incriminating' for purposes of applying the Fifth Amendment. These questions perhaps do not lend themselves to categorical answers; their resolution may instead depend on the facts and circumstances of particular cases or classes thereof." Id., at 410.
In Fisher, the Court explored the effect that the act of production would have on the taxpayer and determined that the act of production would have only minimal testimonial value and would not operate to incriminate the taxpayer. Unlike the Court in Fisher, we have the explicit finding of the District Court that the act of producing the documents would involve testimonial self-incrimination. 11 The Court of Appeals    agreed. 12 The District Court's finding essentially rests on its determination of factual issues.  See United States v. Nixon, 418 U.S. 683, 702 (1974). Therefore,   we will not overturn that finding unless it has no support in the record.  Ibid. Traditionally, we also have been reluctant to disturb findings of fact in which two courts below have concurred.  Rogers v. Lodge, 458 U.S. 613, 623 (1982). We therefore decline to overturn the finding of the District Court in this regard, where, as here, it has been affirmed by the Court of Appeals. 13
IV
The Government, as it concedes, could have compelled respondent to produce the documents listed in the subpoena.  Title 18 U. S. C. §§ 6002 and 6003 provide for the granting of use immunity with respect to the potentially incriminating evidence. 14   The Court upheld the constitutionality of the use immunity statute in Kastigar v. United States, 406 U.S. 441 (1972).
The Government did state several times before the District Court that it would not use respondent's act of production against him in any way.  But counsel for the Government never made a statutory request to the District Court to grant respondent use immunity. 15 We are urged to adopt a doctrine of constructive use immunity. Under this doctrine, the courts would impose a requirement on the Government not to use the incriminatory aspects of the act of production against the person claiming the privilege even though the statutory procedures have not been followed.
We decline to extend the jurisdiction of courts to include prospective grants of use immunity in the absence of the formal request that the statute requires. 16 As we stated in Pillsbury  Co. v. Conboy, 459 U.S. 248 (1983),  in passing the use immunity statute, "Congress gave certain officials in the Department of Justice exclusive authority to grant immunities." Id., at 253-254 (footnotes omitted).  "Congress foresaw the courts as playing only a minor role in the immunizing process. . . ." Id., at 254, n. 11. The decision to seek use immunity necessarily involves a balancing of the Government's interest in obtaining information against the risk that immunity will frustrate the Government's attempts to prosecute the subject of the investigation.  See United States v. Mandujano, 425 U.S. 564, 575 (1976) (plurality opinion).  Congress expressly left this decision exclusively to the Justice Department.  If, on remand, the appropriate official concludes that it is desirable to compel respondent to produce his business records, the statutory procedure for requesting use immunity will be available. 17
V
We conclude that the Court of Appeals erred in holding that the contents of the subpoenaed documents were privileged under the Fifth Amendment. The act of producing the documents at issue in this case is privileged and cannot be compelled without a statutory grant of use immunity pursuant to 18 U.  S. C. §§ 6002 and 6003.  The judgment of the Court of Appeals is, therefore, affirmed in part and reversed in part, 18 and the case is remanded to the District Court for further proceedings consistent with this opinion.
It is so ordered .
<concur author="O'CONNOR" text="TRUE">
CONCUR BY:  O'CONNOR; MARSHALL (In Part); STEVENS (In Part)
JUSTICE O'CONNOR, concurring.
I concur in both the result and reasoning of JUSTICE POWELL'S opinion for the Court.  I write separately, however, just to make explicit what is implicit in the analysis of that opinion: that the Fifth Amendment provides absolutely no protection for the contents of private papers of any kind.  The notion that the Fifth Amendment protects the privacy of papers originated in Boyd v. United States, 116 U.S. 616, 630 (1886), but our decision in Fisher v. United States, 425 U.S. 391 (1976), sounded the death knell for Boyd.  "Several of Boyd's express or implicit declarations  not stood the test of time," 425 U.S., at 407, and its privacy of papers concept " long been a rule searching for a rationale. . . . " Id., at 409. Today's decision puts a long overdue end to that fruitless search.
<dissent author="MARSHALL_T" text="TRUE">
DISSENT BY: MARSHALL (In Part); STEVENS (In Part)
JUSTICE MARSHALL, with whom JUSTICE BRENNAN joins, concurring in part and dissenting in part.
I concur in the Court's affirmance of the Court of Appeals' ruling that the act of producing the documents could not be compelled without an explicit grant of use immunity pursuant to 18 U. S. C. §§ 6002 and 6003.  I dissent, however, with respect to that part of the Court's opinion reversing the Court of Appeals.  The basis for the reversal is the majority's disagreement with the Court of Appeals' discussion of whether the Fifth Amendment protected the contents of the documents respondent sought to withhold from disclosure.  Inasmuch as the Court of Appeals' judgment did not rest upon the disposition of this issue, this Court errs by reaching out to decide it.  As JUSTICE STEVENS rightly insists, "' Court . . . reviews judgments, not statements in opinions.'" Post, at 619 (quoting Black v. Cutter Laboratories, 351 U.S. 292, 297 (1956)).
Contrary to what JUSTICE O'CONNOR contends, ante, at 618, I do not view the Court's opinion in this case as having reconsidered whether the Fifth Amendment provides protection for the contents of "private papers of any kind." This case presented nothing remotely close to the question that JUSTICE O'CONNOR eagerly poses and answers.  First, as noted above, the issue whether the Fifth Amendment protects the contents of the documents was obviated by the Court of Appeals' rulings relating to the act of production and statutory use immunity. Second, the documents at stake here are business records 1 which implicate a lesser degree of concern for privacy interests than, for example, personal diaries. 2
Were it true that the Court's opinion stands for the proposition that "the Fifth Amendment provides absolutely no protection for the contents of private papers of any kind," ibid., I would assuredly dissent.  I continue to believe that under the Fifth Amendment "there are certain documents no person ought to be compelled to produce at the Government's request." Fisher v. United States, 425 U.S. 391, 431-432 (1976) (MARSHALL, J., concurring in judgment).
<concur author="STEVENS" text="TRUE">
JUSTICE STEVENS, concurring in part and dissenting in part.
"This Court . . . reviews judgments, not statements in opinions." Black v. Cutter Laboratories, 351 U.S. 292, 297    (1956). 1 When both the District Court and the Court of Appeals correctly apply the law, and correctly dispose of the issue before them, I think it is poor appellate practice for this Court to reverse.
The question in this case is whether, without tendering statutory immunity, the Government can compel the sole proprietor of a business to produce incriminating records pursuant to a grand jury subpoena. Except for the records that are required by law to be kept or to be disclosed to public agencies, the District Court held that production could not be required.  The basis for that decision turned, not on any suggestion that the contents of the documents were privileged, but rather on the significance of the act of producing them.  As the District Court explained:
" relevant inquiry is not whether the subpoenaed documents on their face reveal incriminating communications, but whether the act of producing the documents has communicative aspects which warrant Fifth Amendment protection. Fisher v. United States, 425 U.S. 391 . . . (1976).  In yielding to the command of the subpoena, Mr.  may be required to make any one of several communications.  The mere act of producing the documents may be considered 'a communication of testimonial significance as an admission that the subpoenaed records exist and that they are authentic.' In Re Grand Jury Empanelled (Colucci), 597 F.2d 851, 861 (3d Cir. 1979); Andresen v. Maryland, 427 U.S. 463, 475 . . . (1976) ('the Fifth Amendment may protect an individual from complying with a subpoena for the production of his personal records in his possession because the very act of production may constitute a compulsory authentication of incriminating information').  In addition, the act of production may indicate a belief that the papers produced are those described in the subpoena. Fisher, 425 U.S. at 410. . . .
"With few exceptions, enforcement of the subpoenas would compel Mr.  to admit that the records exist, that they are in his possession, and that they are authentic. These communications, if made under compulsion of a court decree, would violate Mr.  Fifth Amendment rights." In re Grand Jury Empanelled March 19, 1980, 541 F.Supp. 1, 3 (NJ 1981). 2
The Court of Appeals agreed with the District Court's reasoning and affirmed. It explained:
"To be sure, the documents requested here, like those sought in Fisher, were voluntarily prepared, and therefore 'cannot be said to contain compelled testimonial evidence' in and of themselves.  See Fisher, supra, 425 U.S. at 409-10 . . . . But the Supreme Court in Fisher went to great lengths to   demonstrate that, in certain situations, the very act of producing subpoenaed records might amount to an incriminating declaration.  See id. at 410-13 . . . ; see also id. at 430-34 . . . (Marshall, J., concurring in the judgment).  And such a situation, we believe, is present in the dispute at bar.
. . . . .
"The record contains no explanation by the United States as to how documents of this sort could be authenticated without the appellee's explicit or implicit participation.  As the district court observed in this connection,
'the government can give no assurances that the act of turning over the documents will not constitute incriminating admissions against  either before the grand jury or at a subsequent trial, if he is indicted.  The government argues that the existence, possession and authenticity of the documents can be proved without  testimonial communication, but it cannot satisfy this court as to how that representation can be implemented to protect  in subsequent proceedings.'
"Appendix at 98 (footnote omitted).  Under these circumstances, we are unable to say, as did the Court in Fisher, that responding to the subpoenas 'would not appear to represent a substantial threat of self-incrimination.' 425 U.S. at 413 . . . .
"Accordingly, we hold, therefore, that enforcement of these subpoenas would result in a compelled testimonial communication, an outcome neither compatible with the fifth amendment nor consonant with Fisher." In re Grand Jury Empanelled March 19, 1980, 680 F.2d 327, 334, 335-336 (CA3 1982).
In addition, the Court of Appeals noted that the Government had had an opportunity to obtain the documents by providing the respondent with statutory immunity, but had declined to do so.  It wrote:
"Finally, the United States argues that the district court erred in not compelling the appellee to produce the subpoenaed documents subject to 'the functional equivalent of use immunity with respect to the act of production.' Under this arrangement, presumably the appellee would turn over the requested records to the Government, which in turn would be obligated not to use the appellee's act of production against him in any way.
"We are unpersuaded by the Government's proposition.  As the appellee stresses, although the Government, on a number of occasions, suggested to the district court that there were means by which the appellee's act of production could be immunized, no procedure ever was agreed upon and no formal immunization offer under 18 U. S. C. § 6002 or § 6003 was advanced.  Given this failure on the part of the Government to identify with particularity the immunity proposal it envisioned, we cannot say that the district court erred in rejecting this approach, especially in view of the court's finding that 'the government can give no assurances that the act of turning over the documents will not constitute incriminating admissions against  either before the grand jury or at a subsequent trial.' Appendix at 98; see United States v. Garcia, 544 F.2d 681, 685 n. 4 (3d Cir. 1976)." Id., at 337.
This Court's opinion is entirely consistent with both the reasoning of the Court of Appeals and its disposition of the case.  This Court agrees that the subpoena directed to respondent should have been quashed -- which is all that the judgment we review today contains.  Accordingly, the Court of Appeals' judgment should be affirmed.
To the extent that the Court purports to reverse the judgment of the Court of Appeals, I respectfully dissent.
