OPINION
JUSTICE POWELL delivered the opinion of the Court.
This case presents a question as to the standard of proof required to find a vertical price-fixing conspiracy in violation of ยง 1 of the Sherman Act.
I
Petitioner Monsanto Co. manufactures chemical products, including agricultural herbicides. By the late 1960's, the time at issue in this case, its sales accounted for approximately 15% of the corn herbicide market and 3% of the soybean herbicide market.  In the corn herbicide market, the market leader commanded a 70% share.  In the soybean herbicide market, two other competitors each had between 30% and 40% of the market.  Respondent Spray-Rite Service Corp. was engaged in the wholesale distribution of agricultural chemicals from 1955 to 1972.  Spray-Rite was essentially a family business, whose owner and president, Donald Yapp, was also its sole salaried salesman.  Spray-Rite was a discount   operation, buying in large quantities and selling at a low margin.
Spray-Rite was an authorized distributor of Monsanto herbicides from 1957 to 1968.  In October 1967, Monsanto announced that it would appoint distributors for 1-year terms, and that it would renew distributorships according to several new criteria.  Among the criteria were: (i) whether the distributor's primary activity was soliciting sales to retail dealers; (ii) whether the distributor employed trained salesmen capable of educating its customers on the technical aspects of Monsanto's herbicides; and (iii) whether the distributor could be expected "to exploit fully" the market in its geographical area of primary responsibility. Shortly thereafter, Monsanto also introduced a number of incentive programs, such as making cash payments to distributors that sent salesmen to training classes, and providing free deliveries of products to customers within a distributor's area of primary responsibility. 1
In October 1968, Monsanto declined to renew Spray-Rite's distributorship. At that time, Spray-Rite was the 10th largest out of approximately 100 distributors of Monsanto's primary corn herbicide. Ninety percent of Spray-Rite's sales volume was devoted to herbicide sales, and 16% of its sales were of Monsanto products.  After Monsanto's termination, Spray-Rite continued as a herbicide dealer until 1972.  It was able to purchase some of Monsanto's products from other distributors, but not as much as it desired or as early in the season as it needed.  Monsanto introduced a new corn herbicide in 1969.  By 1972, its share of the corn herbicide market had increased to approximately 28%.  Its share of the soybean herbicide market had grown to approximately 19%.
Spray-Rite brought this action under ยง 1 of the Sherman Act, 26 Stat. 209, as amended, 15 U. S. C. ยง 1. It alleged that Monsanto and some of its distributors conspired to fix the resale prices of Monsanto herbicides. Its complaint further alleged that Monsanto terminated Spray-Rite's distributorship, adopted compensation programs and shipping policies, and encouraged distributors to boycott Spray-Rite in furtherance of this conspiracy. Monsanto denied the allegations of conspiracy, and asserted that Spray-Rite's distributorship had been terminated because of its failure to hire trained salesmen and promote sales to dealers adequately.
The case was tried to a jury.  The District Court instructed the jury that Monsanto's conduct was per se unlawful if it was in furtherance of a conspiracy to fix prices.  In answers to special interrogatories, the jury found that (i) the termination of Spray-Rite was pursuant to a conspiracy between   Monsanto and one or more of its distributors to set resale prices, (ii) the compensation programs, areas of primary responsibility, and/or shipping policies were created by Monsanto pursuant to such a conspiracy, and (iii) Monsanto conspired with one or more distributors to limit Spray-Rite's access to Monsanto herbicides after 1968. 2 The jury awarded $ 3.5 million in damages, which was trebled to $ 10.5 million.  Only the first of the jury's findings is before us today. 3
The Court of Appeals for the Seventh Circuit affirmed.  684 F.2d 1226 (1982). It held that there was sufficient evidence to satisfy Spray-Rite's burden of proving a conspiracy to set resale prices.  The court stated that "proof of termination following competitor complaints is sufficient to support an inference of concerted action." Id., at 1238. 4 Canvassing the testimony and exhibits that were before the jury, the court found evidence of numerous complaints from competing Monsanto distributors about Spray-Rite's price-cutting practices.  It also noted that there was testimony that a Monsanto official had said that Spray-Rite was terminated because of the price complaints.
In substance, the Court of Appeals held that an antitrust plaintiff can survive a motion for a directed verdict if it shows that a manufacturer terminated a price-cutting distributor in response to or following complaints by other distributors. This view brought the Seventh Circuit into direct conflict with a number of other Courts of Appeals. 5 We granted certiorari to resolve the conflict.  460 U.S. 1010 (1983). We reject the statement by the Court of Appeals for the Seventh Circuit of the standard of proof required to submit a case to the jury in distributor-termination litigation, but affirm the judgment   under the standard we announce today. 6
II
This Court has drawn two important distinctions that are at the center of this and any other distributor-termination case.  First,   there is the basic distinction between concerted and independent action -- a distinction not always clearly drawn by parties and courts.  Section 1 of the Sherman Act requires that there be a "contract, combination . . . or conspiracy" between the manufacturer and other distributors in order to establish a violation.  15 U. S. C. ยง 1. Independent action is not proscribed.  A manufacturer of course generally has a right to deal, or refuse to deal, with whomever it likes, as long as it does so independently.  United States v. Colgate & Co., 250 U.S. 300, 307 (1919); cf. United States v. Parke, Davis & Co., 362 U.S. 29 (1960). Under Colgate, the manufacturer can announce its resale prices in advance and refuse to deal with those who fail to comply.  And a distributor is free to acquiesce in the manufacturer's demand in order to avoid termination.
The second important distinction in distributor-termination cases is that between concerted action to set prices and concerted action on nonprice restrictions.  The former have been per se illegal since the early years of national antitrust enforcement.  See Dr. Miles Medical Co. v. John D. Park & Sons Co., 220 U.S. 373, 404-409 (1911). The latter are judged under the rule of reason, which requires a weighing of the relevant circumstances of a case to decide whether a restrictive practice constitutes an unreasonable restraint on competition.  See Continental T.V., Inc. v. GTE Sylvania Inc., 433 U.S. 36 (1977). 7
While these distinctions in theory are reasonably clear, often they are difficult to apply in practice.  In Sylvania we emphasized that   the legality of arguably anticompetitive conduct should be judged primarily by its "market impact." See, e. g., id., at 51. But the economic effect of all of the conduct described above -- unilateral and concerted vertical price setting, agreements on price and nonprice restrictions -- is in many, but not all, cases similar or identical.  See, e. g., Parke, Davis, supra, at 44; n. 7, supra.  And judged from a distance, the conduct of the parties in the various situations can be indistinguishable.  For example, the fact that a manufacturer and its distributors are in constant communication about prices and marketing strategy does not alone show that the distributors are not making independent pricing decisions.  A manufacturer and its distributors have legitimate reasons to exchange information about the prices and the reception of their products in the market.  Moreover, it is precisely in cases in which the manufacturer attempts to further a particular marketing strategy by means of agreements on often costly nonprice restrictions that it will have the most interest in the distributors' resale prices.  The manufacturer often will want to ensure that its distributors earn sufficient profit to pay for programs such as hiring and training additional salesmen or demonstrating the technical features of the product, and will want to see that "freeriders" do not interfere.  See Sylvania, supra, at 55. Thus, the manufacturer's strongly felt concern about resale prices does not necessarily mean that it has done more than the Colgate doctrine allows.
Nevertheless, it is of considerable importance that independent action by the manufacturer, and concerted action on nonprice restrictions, be distinguished from price-fixing agreements, since under present law the latter are subject to per se treatment and treble damages.  On a claim of concerted price fixing, the antitrust plaintiff must present evidence sufficient to carry its burden of proving that there was such an agreement.  If an inference of such an agreement may be drawn from highly ambiguous evidence, there is a considerable danger that the doctrines enunciated in Sylvania and Colgate will be seriously eroded.
The flaw in the evidentiary standard adopted by the Court of Appeals in this case is that it disregards this danger.  Permitting an agreement to be inferred merely from the existence of complaints, or even from the fact that termination came about "in response to" complaints, could deter or penalize perfectly legitimate conduct.  As Monsanto points out,   complaints about price cutters "are natural -- and from the manufacturer's perspective, unavoidable -- reactions by distributors to the activities of their rivals." Such complaints, particularly where the manufacturer has imposed a costly set of nonprice restrictions, "arise in the normal course of business and do not indicate illegal concerted action." Roesch, Inc. v. Star Cooler Corp., 671 F.2d 1168, 1172 (CA8 1982), on rehearing en banc, 712 F.2d 1235 (CA8 1983) (affirming District Court judgment by an equally divided court).  Moreover, distributors are an important source of information for manufacturers. In order to assure an efficient distribution system, manufacturers and distributors constantly must coordinate their activities to assure that their product will reach the consumer persuasively and efficiently.  To bar a manufacturer from acting solely because the information upon which it acts originated as a price complaint would create an irrational dislocation in the market.  See F. Warren-Boulton, Vertical Control of Markets 13, 164 (1978).  In sum,   " permit the inference of concerted action on the basis of receiving complaints alone and thus to expose the defendant to treble damage liability would both inhibit management's exercise of its independent business judgment and emasculate the terms of the statute." Edward J. Sweeney & Sons, Inc. v. Texaco, Inc., 637 F.2d 105, 111, n. 2 (CA3 1980), cert. denied, 451 U.S. 911 (1981). 8
Thus,   something more than evidence of complaints is needed.  There must be evidence that tends to exclude the possibility that the manufacturer and nonterminated distributors were acting independently.  As Judge Aldisert has written, the antitrust plaintiff should present direct or circumstantial evidence that reasonably tends to prove that the manufacturer and others "had a conscious commitment to a common scheme designed to achieve an unlawful objective." Edward J. Sweeney & Sons, supra, at 111; accord, H.L. Moore Drug Exchange v. Eli Lilly & Co., 662 F.2d 935, 941 (CA2 1981), cert. denied, 459 U.S. 880 (1982); cf. American Tobacco Co. v. United States, 328 U.S. 781, 810 (1946) (Circumstances must reveal "a unity of purpose or a common design and understanding, or a meeting of minds in an unlawful arrangement"). 9
III
A
Applying this standard to the facts of this case, we believe there was sufficient evidence for the jury reasonably to have concluded that Monsanto and some of its distributors were parties to an "agreement" or "conspiracy" to maintain resale prices and terminate price cutters.  In fact there was substantial direct evidence of agreements to maintain prices.  There was testimony from a Monsanto district manager, for example, that Monsanto on at least two occasions in early 1969, about five months after Spray-Rite was terminated, approached price-cutting distributors and advised that if they did not maintain the suggested resale price, they would not receive adequate supplies of Monsanto's new corn herbicide. Tr. 1929-1934.  When one of the distributors did not assent, this information was referred to the Monsanto regional office, and it complained to the distributor's parent company.  There was evidence that the parent instructed its subsidiary to comply, and the distributor informed Monsanto that it would charge the suggested price.  Id., at 1933-1934.  Evidence of this kind plainly is relevant and persuasive as to a meeting of minds. 10
An arguably more ambiguous example is a newsletter from one of the distributors to his dealer-customers.  The newsletter is dated October 1, 1968, just four weeks before Spray-Rite was terminated. It was written after a meeting between the author and several Monsanto officials, id., at 2564, 2571-2573, and discusses Monsanto's efforts to " the 'market place in order.'" App.  A-65.  The newsletter reviews some of Monsanto's incentive and shipping policies, and then states that in addition "every effort will be made to maintain a minimum market price level." Id., at A-66.  The newsletter relates these efforts as follows:
"In other words, we are assured that Monsanto's company-owned outlets will not retail at less than their suggested retail price to the trade as a whole.  Furthermore, those of us on the distributor level are not likely to deviate downward on price to anyone as the idea is implied that doing this possibly could discolor the outlook for continuity as one of the approved distributors during the future upcoming seasons.  So, none interested in the retention of this arrangement is likely to risk being deleted from this customer service opportunity.  Also, as far as the national accounts are concerned, they are sure to recognize the desirability of retaining Monsanto's favor on a continuing basis by respecting the wisdom of participating in the suggested program in a manner assuring order on the retail level 'playground' throughout the entire country.  It is elementary that harmony can only come from following the rules of the game and that in case of dispute, the decision of the umpire is final." Id., at A-66 -- A-67.
It is reasonable to interpret this newsletter as referring to an agreement or understanding that distributors and retailers would maintain prices, and Monsanto would not undercut those prices on the retail level and would terminate competitors who sold at prices below those of complying distributors; these were "the rules of the game." 11
B
If, as the courts below reasonably could have found, there was evidence of an agreement with one or more distributors to maintain prices, the remaining question is whether the termination of Spray-Rite was part of or pursuant to that agreement.  It would be reasonable to find that it was, since it is necessary for competing distributors contemplating compliance with suggested prices to know that those who do not comply will be terminated. Moreover, there is some circumstantial evidence of such a link.  Following the termination, there was a meeting between Spray-Rite's president and a Monsanto official.  There was testimony that the first thing the official mentioned was the many complaints Monsanto had received about Spray-Rite's prices.  Tr. 774, 1295. 12 In addition, there was reliable testimony that Monsanto never discussed with Spray-Rite prior to the termination the distributorship criteria that were the alleged basis for the action.  See 684 F.2d, at 1239. By contrast, a former Monsanto salesman for Spray-Rite's area testified that Monsanto representatives on several occasions in 1965-1966 approached Spray-Rite, informed the distributor of complaints from other distributors -- including one major and influential one, see Tr. 126, 135 -- and requested that prices be maintained.  Id., at 109-110, 114.  Later that same year, Spray-Rite's president testified, Monsanto officials made explicit threats to terminate Spray-Rite unless it raised its prices.  Id., at 619, 711. 13
IV
We conclude that the Court of Appeals applied an incorrect standard to the evidence in this case.  The correct standard is that there must be evidence that tends to exclude the possibility of independent action by the manufacturer and distributor. That is, there must be direct or circumstantial evidence that reasonably tends to prove that the manufacturer and others had a conscious commitment to a common scheme designed to achieve an unlawful objective.  Under this standard, the evidence in this case created a jury issue as to whether Spray-Rite was terminated pursuant to a price-fixing conspiracy between Monsanto and its distributors. 14 The judgment of the court below is affirmed.
It is so ordered.
JUSTICE WHITE took no part in the consideration or decision of this case.
<concur author="BRENNAN" text="TRUE">
CONCUR BY: BRENNAN
JUSTICE BRENNAN, concurring.
As the Court notes, the Solicitor General has filed a brief in this Court for the United States as amicus curiae urging us to overrule the Court's decision in Dr. Miles Medical Co. v. John D. Park & Sons Co., 220 U.S. 373 (1911). That decision has stood for 73 years, and Congress has certainly been aware of its existence throughout that time.  Yet Congress has never enacted legislation to overrule the interpretation of the Sherman Act adopted in that case.  Under these circumstances, I see no reason for us to depart from our longstanding interpretation of the Act.  Because the Court adheres to that rule and, in my view, properly applies Dr. Miles to this case, I join the opinion and judgment of the Court.
