OPINION
JUSTICE STEVENS delivered the opinion of the Court.
Appellant, the Franchise Tax Board of California, determined that four employees of appellee United States Postal Service were delinquent in the payment of their state income taxes.  The Board served process on the Postal Service directing it to withhold the amounts of the delinquencies from the employees' wages, pursuant to § 18817 of the California Revenue and Taxation   Code, which authorizes the Board to require any employer to withhold delinquent taxes from an employee's salary and transfer those funds to the Board. 1 The question presented is whether the Postal Service was obligated to honor these "orders to withhold."
I
When the Postal Service refused to comply with the four orders to withhold, the Board filed this action in the United States District Court for the Central District of California asserting that the Service was liable under the Revenue and Taxation Code for failing to honor the orders, 2 and invoking federal jurisdiction pursuant to 39 U. S. C. § 409(a) and 28 U. S. C. § 1339. 3 The District Court entered summary judgment for the Postal Service.  It held that 5 U. S. C. § 5517, which authorized the agreement that California and the United States had made regarding the withholding of state income taxes from the pay of federal employees, applies only to withholding of anticipated tax liabilities and not to delinquent liabilities. 4 The Court of Appeals affirmed, agreeing that 5 U. S. C. § 5517 excused the Service from complying with the orders.  Employment Development Department v. United States Postal Service, 698 F.2d 1029 (CA9 1983). 5 The Court of Appeals rejected the Board's argument that § 5517 did not prohibit issuance of the orders, and also rejected the argument that the provision in 39 U. S. C. § 401(1) declaring that the Postal Service may "sue and be sued in its official name" had waived any sovereign immunity that the Service might possess. 6 This appeal followed. 7
In this Court, the Postal Service does not argue that 5 U. S. C. § 5517 and the agreement pursuant thereto between the United States and California prohibit the issuance of an order to withhold against the Postal Service with respect to delinquent tax liabilities of its employees. 8 To the contrary,   the Postal Service expressly concedes that it is amenable to judicial   process and could be required to honor a garnishment order requiring it to withhold the salary of a federal employee in order to satisfy a delinquent tax liability if issued by a state court. 9 Instead, the Postal Service contends that although it must obey a judicial order, it retains sovereign immunity with respect to state administrative tax levies.  It argues that while the provision that the Postal Service can "sue and be sued in its official name" waives immunity from suit, it does not apply to administrative proceedings.
II
The Board does not dispute the proposition that, unless waived, sovereign immunity prevents the creditor of a federal employee from collecting a debt through a judicial order requiring the United States to garnishee the employee's salary. See Buchanan v. Alexander, 4 How. 20 (1845). Rather, it places its primary reliance on   39 U. S. C. § 401(1), which indicates that the Postal Service may "sue and be sued." Thus the question in this case is whether this statutory waiver of sovereign immunity extends to the Board's orders to withhold.
This Court construed a statute providing that an agency created by Congress -- the Federal Housing Authority -- was empowered "to sue and be sued," in FHA v. Burr, 309 U.S. 242 (1940). In Burr the question presented was whether the agency had to honor a garnishment order issued by a state court.  The Court began by observing: "Since consent to 'sue and be sued' has been given by Congress, the problem here merely involves a determination of whether or not garnishment comes within the scope of that authorization." Id., at 244. It continued:
" start from the premise that such waivers by Congress of governmental immunity in case of such federal instrumentalities should be liberally construed.  This policy is in line with the current disfavor of the doctrine of governmental immunity from suit, as evidenced by the increasing tendency of Congress to waive the immunity where federal governmental corporations are concerned. . . .  Hence,   when Congress establishes such an agency, authorizes it to engage in commercial and business transactions with the public, and permits it to 'sue and be sued,' it cannot be lightly assumed that restrictions on that authority are to be implied.  Rather if the general authority to 'sue and be sued' is to be delimited by implied exceptions, it must be clearly shown that certain types of suits are not consistent with the statutory or constitutional scheme, that an implied restriction of the general authority is necessary to avoid grave interference with the performance of a governmental function, or that for other reasons it was plainly the purpose of   Congress to use the 'sue and be sued' clause in a narrow sense.  In the absence of such showing, it must be presumed that when Congress   launched a governmental agency into the commercial world and endowed it with authority to 'sue or be sued,' that agency is not less amenable to judicial process than a private enterprise under like circumstances would be." Id., at 245 (footnote omitted). 10
The Court then explained why   garnishment orders fell within the scope of the statutory waiver of sovereign immunity:
"Clearly the words 'sue and be sued' in their normal connotation embrace all civil process incident to the commencement or continuance of legal proceedings.  Garnishment and attachment commonly are part and parcel of the process, provided by statute, for the collection of debt. . . .   it may be denominated, whether legal or equitable, and whenever it may be available, whether prior to or after final judgment, garnishment is  a well-known remedy available to suitors.  To say that Congress did not intend to include such civil process in the words 'sue and be sued' would in general deprive suits of some of their efficacy." Id., at 245-246 (footnotes and citation omitted).
If anything, the waiver of sovereign immunity is broader here than it was in Burr.   In passing the Postal Reorganization Act of 1970, 84 Stat. 719, Congress not only indicated that the Postal Service could "sue and be sued," 39 U. S. C. § 401(1), but also that it had the power "to settle and compromise claims by or against it," § 401(8), and that " provisions of chapter 171 and all other provisions of title 28 relating to tort claims shall apply to tort claims arising out of activities of the Postal Service." § 409(c). 11 Neither of these provisions would have been necessary had Congress intended to preserve sovereign immunity with respect to the Postal Service. 12 Congress also indicated that it wished the Postal Service to be run more like a business than had its predecessor, the Post Office Department. 13
Here, the Board has employed the same "well-known" remedy that was held to be within the scope of a sue-and-be-sued clause in Burr.  Moreover, as was true of the agency involved in Burr, Congress has "launched  into the commercial world"; hence under Burr not only must we liberally construe the sue-and-be-sued clause, but also we must presume that the Service's liability is the same as that of any other business. No showing has been made to overcome that presumption.  Since an order to withhold cannot issue unless the Postal Service owes the  employee wages, the Service is nothing but a stakeholder; the order to withhold has precisely the same effect on its ability to operate efficiently as it does on that of any other employer subject to the California statute.  It creates no greater inconvenience than did the garnishment order that this Court held could issue against a federal agency in Burr. 14 Indeed, the Board's order to withhold contains the same direction as did the writ of garnishment served on the FHA in Burr.
The Postal Service attempts to distinguish Burr by observing that the waiver of sovereign immunity in § 401(1) is limited to cases in which it has been "sued," and then arguing that because the process that has issued here is that of an administrative agency rather than a court, the Service has not been "sued" within the meaning of § 401(1).  This crabbed construction of the statute overlooks our admonition that  waiver of sovereign immunity is accomplished not by "a ritualistic formula"; rather intent to waive immunity and the scope of such a waiver can only be ascertained by reference to underlying congressional policy.  Keifer & Keifer v. Reconstruction Finance Corp ., 306 U.S. 381, 389 (1939).15 In this   case, at the level of policy and practicality it is illogical to conclude that Congress would have differentiated between process issued by the Board and that of a court, for even if a court issued the orders to withhold, neither the Postal Service nor its employees would be in a materially different position.
The operation of California's tax collection process makes it clear that there is no meaningful difference between an order to withhold issued by the Board and a garnishment order issued by a court.  Under state law an assessment that has been validly made against a taxpayer 16 operates to impose an absolute liability for the tax that may not be contested except in an action seeking refund of amounts already paid.  Indeed state law is unequivocal in requiring employers to honor orders to withhold -- no defense is permitted. 17 Thus,   a California tax assessment, like a federal tax assessment, operates in a way that is functionally indistinguishable from the judgment of a court of law; it creates an absolute legal obligation to make payment by a date certain:
"Once the tax is assessed the taxpayer will owe the sovereign the amount when the date fixed by law for payment arrives.  Default in meeting the obligations calls for some procedure whereby payment can be enforced.  The statute might remit the Government to an action at law wherein the taxpayer could offer such defense as he had.  A judgment against him might be collected by the levy of an execution. But taxes are the life-blood of government, and their prompt and certain availability an imperious need.  Time out of mind, therefore,   the sovereign has resorted to more drastic means of collection. The assessment is given the force of a judgment, and if the amount assessed is not paid when due, administrative officials may seize the debtor's property to satisfy the debt." Bull v. United States, 295 U.S. 247, 259-260 (1935). 18
Thus, in operation and effect   the Board's orders to withhold are identical to the judgment of a court.  They give rise to a binding legal obligation to pay the assessed amounts; the taxpayer may no more dispute this liability than the liability under any other judgment.  Neither the Postal Service nor its employees would obtain any additional protections from a requirement that such orders be issued by a court, since the liability cannot be contested until after the tax has been paid and a refund action brought. 19 At the same time, construing the statute to require the issuance of judicial process before the Postal Service need honor an order to withhold would create unwarranted disruption of the State's machinery for collection of delinquent taxes, 20 while simultaneously depriving the orders of "some of their efficacy" -- a result inconsistent with Burr.
There is thus no reason to believe that Congress intended to impose a meaningless procedural requirement that an order to withhold be issued by a court.  To distinguish between administrative and judicial process would be to take an approach to sovereign immunity that this Court rejected more than 40 years ago -- "to impute to Congress a desire for incoherence in a body of affiliated enactments and for drastic legal differentiation where policy justifies none." Keifer & Keifer, 306 U.S., at 394.21 In cases of this kind, we believe Congress intended the Postal Service to be treated similarly to other self-sustaining commercial ventures.  Accordingly, we hold that   when administrative process of the type employed by the Board issues against the Postal Service, it has been "sued" within the meaning of § 401(1), and must respond to that process. 22
The judgment of the Court of Appeals is reversed, and the case is remanded to that court for further proceedings consistent with this opinion.
It is so ordered.
