OPINION
JUSTICE STEVENS delivered the opinion of the Court.
Services performed for patients between the ages of 21 and 65 in an "institution for mental diseases" (IMD) are not covered by the Medicaid Act.  The Secretary of Health and Human Services has adopted a definition of that term that is broad enough to encompass an "intermediate care facility" (ICF).  The Middletown Haven Rest Home is an ICF that provides care for persons with mental illness as well as other diseases. The narrow question presented by this case is whether Middletown Haven is an IMD within the meaning of the Act.  The broader question is whether the Secretary's definition of an IMD, which permits an ICF to be classified as an IMD, is consistent with the intent of Congress.
During the period between January 1977 and September 1979, the State of Connecticut paid Middletown Haven for the services it provided to Medicaid eligible patients, including those between the ages of 21 and 65 who had been transferred to Middletown Haven from state mental hospitals.  Under the Medicaid program, the State received federal reimbursement of $ 1,634,655 for those payments.
After receiving information that Connecticut was discharging large numbers of mental patients from state mental institutions into ICFs and skilled nursing facilities, and after numerous meetings with state officials, the Department of Health and Human Services selected Middletown Haven, which is certified by the State as an ICF, for review and audit.  The Department believed that the State was receiving federal financial aid in violation of applicable regulations that prohibited aid to IMDs.
Middletown Haven is a privately owned, 180-bed facility that is licensed by the Connecticut State Department of Health as a "Rest Home with Nursing Supervision" with authority "to care for persons with certain psychiatric conditions." 1 During the years 1977-1979 over 77% of its patients suffered from a major mental illness, and over half of its patients were transferees from state mental hospitals. 2 Middletown Haven employed a professional staff, including three psychiatrists, that specialized in the care of the mentally ill; 3 they viewed it as a psychiatric facility. 4 In sum, there was ample evidence for the review   team's conclusion that Middletown was "primarily engaged" in providing diagnostic treatment and care for persons with mental diseases within the meaning of the applicable regulations. 5
After the completion of its audit, the Department gave notice to the State that the federal reimbursement of $ 1,634,655 was not allowable because Middletown Haven had been identified as an IMD and because payments for services to the mentally ill between the ages of 21 and 65 in IMDs were not eligible for federal financial participation. 6 The State's request for administrative review of the disallowance decision was consolidated with similar requests by the States of Illinois, Minnesota, and California.  The Department's Grant Appeals Board upheld the disallowance. 7
The State then obtained judicial review by filing this action. 8 The United States District Court for the District of Connecticut held that the Secretary's decision was not supported by the statute and set aside the disallowance. Connecticut v. Schweiker, 557 F.Supp. 1077 (1983). The Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit reversed, 731 F. d 1052 (1984), expressly rejecting the contrary reasoning of the Eighth Circuit.  See Minnesota v. Heckler, 718 F.2d 852 (1983). The square conflict on an important question of statutory construction prompted us to grant certiorari.  469 U.S. 929 (1984).
Connecticut contends that the same institution cannot be both an "institution for mental diseases" and an "intermediate care facility"; in other words, IMDs and ICFs are mutually exclusive categories.  Because the Secretary acknowledges that Middletown Haven is an ICF, the State concludes that it cannot be an IMD.  In our view, however, the State's position is foreclosed by the plain language of the statute, by the Secretary's reasonable and longstanding interpretation of the Act, and by the Act's legislative history. We therefore affirm.
I
In 1965 Congress authorized the Medicaid program by adding Title XIX to   the Social Security Act; 9 the program was established "for the purpose of providing federal financial assistance to States that choose to reimburse certain costs of medical treatment for needy persons." 10 The program offers the financial assistance to States that submit and have approved by the Secretary plans for "medical assistance." 11 In its present form, the Act authorizes reimbursement for 18 categories of medical assistance. 12
For three types of covered medical services -- inpatient hospital services, skilled nursing facilities services, and, most importantly, intermediate care facility services -- the definition contains an express exception for services performed in IMDs. 13 The thrice-repeated exclusion demonstrates that Congress did not intend the ICF and IMD categories to be mutually exclusive; if Congress had intended separate categories, the IMD exclusion from services in other types of facilities would be unnecessary and illogical.
Other provisions of the Act make it clear that services performed for the mentally ill may be covered, provided the services are performed in a hospital, a skilled nursing facility, or an ICF that is not an IMD.  Thus, the definition of an ICF expressly describes persons "who because of their mental or   physical condition" require institutional care but do not need the level of services provided by a skilled nursing facility or a hospital. 14 And   ยง 1396d(a)(18)(B) prohibits medical assistance for services to individuals under 65 who are patients in IMDs, while another provision, ยง 1396d(a)(14), also allows such payments for "inpatient hospital services, skilled nursing facility services, and intermediate care facility services for individuals 65 years of age or over in an institution for mental diseases." To accept the State's interpretation would render the language of ยง 1396d(a)(14) unnecessary and would render lifeless Congress' approval of ICF services for persons 65 or over in IMDs. 15
Thus, there is ample textual support for the conclusion that an ICF may be an IMD.
II
In the absence of a statutory definition of the term "institution for mental diseases," it is appropriate to consider the Secretary's interpretation of that term. 16
The Secretary's initial definition was provided shortly after the Medicaid program was enacted in 1965.  It stated:
"Any individual who has not attained 65 years of age and is a patient in an institution for . . . mental diseases; i. e., an institution whose overall character is that of a facility established and maintained primarily for the care and treatment of individuals with . . . mental diseases (whether or not it is licensed)." 17 (Emphasis added.)
A few years later, the Secretary promulgated the following:
"Whether an institution is one for . . . mental diseases will be determined by whether its overall character is that of a facility established and maintained primarily for the care and treatment of individuals with . . . mental diseases (whether licensed or not) . . . .
. . . .
"'Institution for mental diseases' means an institution which is primarily engaged in providing diagnosis, treatment or care of persons with mental diseases, including medical attention, nursing care and related services." 18
The current definition 19 -- like the earlier versions -- is essentially the same as the original definition developed almost two decades ago. 20 In both the earliest and the later interpretations of "institution for mental diseases," the Secretary consistently emphasized the "overall character" of the facility when defining an IMD.
Congress has never indicated dissatisfaction with the Secretary's undeviating construction.  "We have often noted that   the interpretation of an agency charged with the administration of a statute is entitled to substantial deference." Blum v. Bacon, 457 U.S. 132, 141 (1982). Moreover, the agency's construction need not be the only reasonable one in order to gain judicial approval. 21 It follows that the Secretary was authorized to determine that medical assistance is not available if the overall character of a facility discloses that it is maintained primarily for the care and treatment of individuals with mental diseases. We must therefore reject the State's suggestion that ICFs and skilled nursing facilities that are   primarily engaged in the care of the mentally ill are not "institutions for mental diseases" within the meaning of the Act. 22
III
The Medicaid program as enacted in 1965 provided coverage for elderly patients in IMDs, but also contained an express exclusion for patients under 65 years of age in IMDs. 23 The Report of the Senate Committee on Finance made it clear that the IMD exclusion applied to both public and private mental institutions, and explained that it was based on the view that long-term care in mental institutions was a state responsibility. 24
The Committee Report also explained that the decision to provide federal financial assistance to the mentally ill who were 65 years of age or over was based in part on the requirement that the state plan would include adequate provision for individual review of a patient's needs. 25 Moreover, the   Report stated that States had to develop and to implement comprehensive mental health programs. 26 These latter conditions are components of the "Long Amendment," and provide support for the State's contention that federal policy favors the transfer of patients -- at least the elderly -- from IMDs to less restrictive treatment facilities. 27
In 1967, without amending the Medicaid statute, Congress expanded the aid programs for the aged, blind, and disabled by authorizing federal reimbursement for the cost of services in ICFs. 28 The 1967 amendments do not expressly mention IMDs. 29 Four years later, in 1971, Congress adopted the amendment to the Medicaid statute that enlarged the definition of covered medical services to include services performed by ICFs.  The amendments retained the IMD exclusion, an exclusion that remains in the Act today. 30
The next year, Congress added coverage for "inpatient psychiatric hospital services for individuals under 21." 31 In its deliberations on the 1972 amendments, Congress also considered the desirability of extending Medicaid "mental hospital coverage" to persons between the ages of 21 and 65, but decided not to do so. 32 See Schweiker v. Wilson, 450 U.S. 221, 236 (1981). 33
The State points to several aspects of this lengthy legislative history to support its argument that the exception for IMDs should be narrowly construed to encompass only traditional custodial mental hospitals.  It places special emphasis on the "Long Amendment," which surely indicates that federal policy favors the transfer of mentally ill patients to alternative and less restrictive care facilities when feasible.  It also notes that when federal assistance for ICFs was first authorized in 1967, no express exclusion for IMDs was made, and that the text of the Act plainly contemplates that ICF services will be provided for the mentally ill. Finally, it points to a number of comments by legislators indicating that they assumed that the IMD exclusion only referred to traditional mental hospitals.
The history on which the State relies does clearly establish that an individual is not ineligible for Medicaid simply because his need for care is based on a diagnosis of mental illness. Moreover, it is perfectly clear that hospitals, skilled nursing facilities, and intermediate care facilities are not ineligible simply because they provide care and treatment for mentally ill  patients. However, the legislative history also demonstrates that Congress has thrice since 1965 not accepted proposals to lift the IMD exclusion for persons under 65. 34 But most damaging to the State's position is a statement by Congress from the legislative history of the 1972 amendments, which authorized Medicaid funding for ICF services for the elderly in IMDs. 35 In explaining this amendment, the Conference Report stated:
"The Senate amendment added a new section to the House bill which provided that when a State chooses to cover individuals age 65 and over in institutions for . . . mental diseases it must cover such care in intermediate care facilities as well as in hospitals and skilled nursing homes." 36
This statement of congressional intent is consistent with the plain language of the statute and with the Secretary's longstanding administrative interpretation: hospitals, skilled nursing facilities, and ICFs can be IMDs and the terms are not mutually exclusive.
The State has persuasively argued that its position represents sound and enlightened policy.  It has not, however, established that Congress has only excluded "hospitals" in which a mental illness is treated instead of "institutions for mental diseases." The express authorization for coverage of individuals 65 years of age or over uses language that plainly indicates that a hospital, a skilled nursing facility, or an ICF may be an IMD; this indication is unambiguously confirmed by the fact that the same parenthetical exclusion for IMDs applies to all three types of facilities. Moreover, the Secretary's interpretation of "institution for mental diseases" comports with the plain language of the statute.  Finally, the legislative history does not reveal any clear expression of contrary congressional intent.
The judgment of the Court of Appeals is affirmed.
It is so ordered.
