OPINION
JUSTICE STEVENS delivered the opinion of the Court.
A company that is a party to a collective-bargaining agreement may have a contractual duty to make contributions to a pension fund during the term of the agreement and, in addition, may have a duty under the National Labor Relations Act (NLRA) to continue making such contributions after the expiration of the contract and while negotiations for a new contract are in process.  In 1980, Congress amended the Employee Retirement Income Security Act (ERISA) to provide trustees of multiemployer benefit plans with an effective federal remedy to collect delinquent contributions.  The question presented in this case is whether that remedy encompasses actions based on an alleged breach of the employer's statutory duty as well as those based on an alleged breach of contract.  We agree with the Court of Appeals' conclusion that the remedy is limited to the collection of "promised contributions."
I
Prior to 1983, respondent was a member of the Associated General Contractors of California and a party to two multiemployer collective-bargaining agreements negotiated on its behalf by that association. 1 The agreements included provisions requiring respondent to make monthly contributions to eight different employee benefit plans. 2 The collective-bargaining agreements, which were executed in 1980, had an expiration date of June 15, 1983.
On April 1, 1983, respondent notified both unions that it had terminated the association's authority to bargain on its behalf, that it would not  be bound by either master agreement (or any successor agreement) after the June 15, 1983, expiration date, and that it was prepared to negotiate with the unions independently.  Respondent continued to contribute to the eight trust funds until June 15, 1983, but has made no contributions since that date.
In December 1983, the trustees of the eight plans (petitioners) 3 brought suit in the Federal District Court for the Northern District of California against respondent to collect contributions for the period after June 15, 1983.  Petitioners allege that respondent's unilateral decision to change the terms and conditions of employment by discontinuing its contributions constituted a breach of its duty to bargain in good faith and violated § 8(a)(5) of the NLRA.  61 Stat. 141, 29 U.S.C. § 158(a)(5).   The complaints alleged that the federal court had jurisdiction under §§ 502(g)(2) and 515 of ERISA. 4
Respondent's answer to the complaint challenged the District Court's jurisdiction and also denied that respondent had any statutory duty to make contributions to the funds because its negotiations with the unions had reached an "impasse." 5 The "impasse" issue has never been resolved because the District Court granted a motion for summary judgment based on two other grounds: That § 515 of ERISA does not apply to an employer's obligations under § 8(a)(5) of the NLRA; and that the National Labor Relations Board (NLRB) has exclusive jurisdiction over petitioners' claims.
The Court of Appeals affirmed.  779 F. 2d 497 (CA9 1985). It necessarily assumed that petitioner could prove that respondent's postcontract refusal to contribute to the funds was an unfair labor practice. 6 It held, however, that the claims should be resolved by the NLRB rather than by a federal district court.  After examining the text and the legislative history of the Multiemployer Pension Plan Amendments Act of 1980 (MPPAA), the Court concluded:
"We find no persuasive evidence in either the plain words or legislative history of ERISA or the MPPAA that Congress intended section 515 to be an exception to the general rule of NLRB preemption for that narrow category of suits seeking recovery of unpaid contributions accrued during the period between   contract expiration and impasse." Id., at 505. 7
We granted certiorari, 479 U.S. 1083 (1987), and now affirm.
II
In its 1980 amendments to ERISA, Congress responded to two concerns that are relevant to the question presented by this case.  It was primarily concerned about the burden placed upon the remaining contributors to a multiemployer fund when one or more of them withdraw. 8 In response to this concern Congress enacted an elaborate provision imposing "withdrawal liability" on such withdrawing employers. 9 That liability arises when an employer ceases to have an "obligation to contribute" to the plan. 10 That term is defined for the purposes of the withdrawal liability portion of the statute in language that unambiguously includes both the employer's contractual obligations and  any obligation imposed by the NLRA. 11 That definition is significant because it demonstrates that Congress was aware of the two different sources of an employer's duty to contribute to covered plans.
Congress was also concerned about the problem that had arisen because a substantial number of employers had failed to make their "promised contributions" on a regular and timely basis. 12 Sections 515 and 502(g)(2) of ERISA, the provisions at issue in this case, were enacted in response to that concern.  The text of § 515 plainly describes the employer's contractual obligation to make contributions but omits any reference to a noncontractual obligation imposed by the NLRA.  Section 515 provides:
"Every employer who is obligated to make contributions to a multiemployer plan under the terms of the plan or under the terms of a collectively bargained agreement shall, to the extent not inconsistent with law, make such   contributions in accordance with the terms and conditions of such plan or such agreement." 94 Stat. 1295, 29 U.S.C. § 1145.
The liability created by § 515 may be enforced by the trustees of a plan by bringing an action in federal district court pursuant to § 502.  The special remedy against employers who are delinquent in meeting their   contractual obligations that is created by § 502(g)(2) includes a mandatory award of prejudgment interest plus liquidated damages in an amount at least equal to that interest, as well as attorney's fees and costs. 13
The legislative history of these provisions explains that Congress added these strict remedies to give employers a strong incentive to honor their contractual obligations to contribute and to facilitate the collection of delinquent accounts. 14 That history contains no mention of the employer's statutory duty to make postcontract contributions while negotiations for a new contract are being conducted. 15 Thus, both the text and the legislative history of §§ 515 and 502(g)(2) provide firm support for the Court of Appeals' conclusion that   this remedy is limited to the collection of "promised contributions" and does not confer jurisdiction on district courts to determine whether an employer's unilateral decision to refuse to make postcontract contributions constitutes a violation of the NLRA. 16
III
Petitioners, supported by the Solicitor General of the United States, advance two policy arguments for giving § 515 a broad construction that would include postcontract delinquencies. First, they argue that the reasons for giving a district court jurisdiction of collection actions apply to   post-contract delinquencies as well as those arising during the term of the contract and that it is unwise to leave a "gap" in the enforcement scheme. Second, they argue that the remedies available in NLRB proceedings are inadequate.
Our principal reason for rejecting these arguments is our conviction that Congress' intent is so plain that policy arguments of this kind must be addressed to the body that has the authority to amend the legislation, rather than one whose authority is limited to interpreting it.  We nevertheless note that there are countervailing policy arguments that make it highly unlikely that the limited reach of the statute is the consequence of inadvertence rather than deliberate choice.
With respect to the asserted "gap" in the enforcement scheme, three observations are pertinent.  First, the incidence of the asserted gap is unknown.  Presumably most employers who anticipate a continuing relationship with a union honor their obligations to preserve the status quo during negotiations for a new contract. If a new contract is ultimately signed, it should define the employer's obligations during the period subsequent to the expiration of the preceding contract; therefore, any delinquency during that period would be covered by § 515.  On the other hand, if no new contract is ever signed, there is at least a possibility that an impasse had been reached either before, or only a short time after, the expiration of the old contract.  The fact that this type of delinquency appears not even to have been called to the attention of Congress indicates that it may not be a problem of serious magnitude. 17
Second, the issues that must be decided in a dispute over an employer's refusal to make any postcontract contributions are more complex than those that are presented in a simple collection action. Whereas it is entirely appropriate to award prejudgment interest or liquidated damages as a remedy for an employer's failure to make the payments specified in a contract, those remedies are problematic in cases in which there is a good-faith dispute over both the existence and the extent of the employer's liability.  The question whether and when an impasse has been reached is often a matter of judgment based on an evaluation of the parties' bargaining history against standards that are imprecise at best. 18
Third, whether an employer's unilateral decision to discontinue contributions to a pension plan constitutes a violation of the statutory duty to bargain in good faith is the kind of question that is routinely resolved by the administrative agency with expertise in labor law. There are situations in which district judges must occasionally resolve labor issues, but they surely represent the exception rather than the rule.  In cases like this, which involve either an actual or an "arguable" violation of § 8 of the NLRA, federal courts typically defer to the judgment of the NLRB.  See San Diego Building Trades Council v. Garmon, 359 U.S. 236, 245 (1959).19
Petitioners may be correct in contending that the remedies available in an NLRB proceeding are less effective than an ERISA action would be.  Under ERISA they are entitled to attorney's fees, prejudgment interest, and liquidated damages,   whereas the scope of relief available in an NLRB proceeding is often a matter of agency discretion.  Moreover, an unfair labor practice charge must be filed within a 6-month period and the general counsel has discretion to refuse to issue a complaint if she is not persuaded that the charge has merit or is of sufficient importance to justify prosecution.  Finally, the employer and the union may enter into a settlement that either reduces, or even might waive, the employer's postcontract obligations to contribute to the pension fund.
But these asserted defects in petitioners' labor law remedy are characteristic of all unfair labor practice proceedings before the NLRB.  If the labor legislation were simply repealed, in toto, petitioners would have no basis whatsoever for claiming that an employer had any duty to continue making contributions to a fund after the expiration of its contractual commitment to do so.  The duty that does exist is simply a consequence of a broader labor law duty that was created to protect the collective-bargaining process.  Unilateral changes in the terms and conditions of employment are prohibited, not to vindicate the interests that motivated the enactment of § 515 in 1980, but rather to carry out the purposes of the NLRA. The net effect of the labor law duties imposed on employers by that legislation provides a substantial benefit to ERISA plan trustees, but Congress has not provided them with a unique and preferred procedure for obtaining redress for an employer's violation of its duty to bargain with the union.
The judgment of the Court of Appeals is
Affirmed.
JUSTICE KENNEDY took no part in the consideration or decision of this case.
