OPINION
JUSTICE KENNEDY delivered the opinion of the Court.
Under the Medicare program, Title XVIII of the Social Security Act, 79 Stat. 291, 42 U. S. C. § 1395 et seq. (1982 ed. and Supp. III), certain qualified providers of health care services are reimbursed by the Secretary of Health and Human Services for the reasonable cost of providing covered services to Medicare beneficiaries. Each such provider submits a cost report at the end of the year to a fiscal intermediary, usually a private insurance company acting as an agent for the Secretary. The fiscal intermediary audits the cost report and issues a Notice of Program Reimbursement specifying the amount of reimbursement due to the provider and explaining any adjustments.
A provider may appeal the intermediary's final determination to the Provider Reimbursement Review Board and, under certain circumstances, may obtain a hearing from the Board. The Board is authorized to affirm, modify, or reverse intermediary decisions. The Secretary, either on his own motion or on request of the provider, may review the matter further, and any provider that remains dissatisfied with a final decision of the Board or Secretary may seek review in the United States District Court. §§ 1395oo(a), (d), (f).
This case requires us to decide whether the Board may decline to consider a provider's challenge to one of the Secretary's regulations on the ground that the provider failed to contest the regulation's validity in the cost report submitted to its fiscal intermediary.
I
Petitioners Bethesda Hospital Association and The Deaconess Hospital of Cincinnati are Ohio entities that operate hospitals in that State. Bethesda and Deaconess joined with some 27 other hospitals to challenge a 1979 regulation promulgated by the Secretary, which disallowed certain claims for malpractice insurance premium costs. We are not concerned here with the merits of the challenge to the 1979 regulation; rather, we must decide whether the Board had jurisdiction to consider the issue.
In their cost reports for 1980, petitioners followed the 1979 regulation in their apportionment of malpractice insurance costs and thereby effected, in the lexicon of the Medicare program, a "self-disallowance" of malpractice insurance costs in excess of those allowed by the 1979 regulation. Petitioners later filed a timely request for a hearing before the Board, challenging the validity of the malpractice regulation and seeking reimbursement for malpractice costs in accordance with the pre-1979 methodology. Because the amounts had been self-disallowed in the reports filed with the fiscal intermediary, however, the Board determined that it was without jurisdiction to hear the petitioners' claims. The Board held, in essence, that a statutory condition to its jurisdiction had not been met, stating that its authority to grant hearings is limited to cases in which the provider is "dissatisfied with a final determination of the . . . fiscal intermediary," and reasoning that the petitioners could not be dissatisfied when they had effected a self-disallowance of the claims. The District Court, in disagreement with the Board's reasoning, held that the Board should have exercised jurisdiction over the matter. Bethesda Hospital v. Heckler, 609 F. Supp. 1360, 1368 (SD Ohio 1985).
The Secretary appealed to the United States Court of Appeals for the Sixth Circuit, which reversed the District Court. The Court of Appeals stated that "were we considering this issue as a matter of first impression, we may well have reached a different conclusion as to the advisability of requiring submission of statutory and/or constitutional challenges to a private   insurance company as a condition precedent to further administrative as well as judicial review of the Secretary's regulations." Bethesda Hospital v. Secretary of Health and Human Services, 810 F. 2d 558, 562 (CA6 1987). The court found itself bound, however, by the decision of a prior panel in Baptist Hospital East v. Secretary of Health and Human Services, 802 F. 2d 860 (CA6 1986), where it was held that the Board had properly "refused to exercise jurisdiction over those claims by providers who had self-disallowed reimbursement and had failed to challenge the Secretary's regulations before the fiscal intermediary." Bethesda Hospital v. Secretary of Health and Human Services, supra, at 561. We granted certiorari, 484 U. S. 813 (1987),   to resolve a conflict among the Courts of Appeal. 1 We now reverse.
II
The plain meaning of the statute decides the issue presented. See INS v. Cardoza-Fonseca, 480 U. S. 421, 432, and n. 12 (1987); Chevron U. S. A. Inc. v. Natural Resources Defense Council, Inc.  467 U. S. 837, 842-843 (1984). The parties agree that § 1395oo(a)   of the Act addresses the circumstances in which a provider may invoke the Board's jurisdiction. To the extent pertinent here, § 1395oo(a) states that a provider may obtain a hearing before the Board with respect to its cost report if
"(1)   such provider --
"(A)(i) is dissatisfied with a final determination of . . . its fiscal intermediary . . . as to the amount of total program reimbursement due the provider . . . for the period covered by such report,
. . . . .
"(2) the amount in controversy is $ 10,000 or more, and
"(3) such provider files a request for a hearing within 180 days . . ." 42 U. S. C. § 1395oo(a) (1982 ed. and Supp. III).
The Secretary contends that the requirement that a provider be "dissatisfied with a final determination of . . . its fiscal intermediary" necessarily incorporates an exhaustion requirement. In the Secretary's view, a provider's right to a hearing before the Board extends only to claims presented to a fiscal intermediary because the provider cannot be "dissatisfied" with the intermediary's decision to award the amounts requested in the provider's cost report. Petitioners counter that it would have been improper, or at least irregular, to submit a claim for cost reimbursement in a manner prohibited by the regulations, and that it was correct to raise their challenge in the first instance by presenting the matter to the Board.
The strained interpretation offered by the Secretary is inconsistent with the express language of the statute. We agree that,   under subsection (a)(1)(A)(i), a provider's dissatisfaction with the amount of its total reimbursement is a condition to the Board's jurisdiction. It is clear, however, that the submission of a cost report in full compliance with the unambiguous dictates of the Secretary's rules and regulations does not, by itself, bar the provider from claiming dissatisfaction with the amount of reimbursement allowed by those regulations. No statute or regulation expressly mandates that a challenge to the validity of a regulation be submitted first to the fiscal intermediary. Providers know that, under the statutory scheme, the fiscal intermediary is confined to the mere application of the Secretary's regulations, that the intermediary is without power to award reimbursement except as the regulations provide, and that any attempt to persuade the intermediary to do otherwise would be futile. 2 Thus, petitioners stand on different ground than do providers who bypass a clearly prescribed exhaustion requirement or who fail to request from the intermediary reimbursement for all costs to which they are entitled under applicable rules. While such defaults might well establish that a provider was satisfied with the amounts requested in its cost report and awarded by the fiscal intermediary, those circumstances are not presented here. We conclude that petitioners could claim dissatisfaction, within the meaning of the statute, without incorporating their challenge in the cost reports filed with their fiscal intermediaries.
While the express language of subsection (a) requires the result we reach in the present case, our conclusion is also supported by the language and design of the statute as a whole. Cf.  Offshore Logistics, Inc. v. Tallentire, 477 U.S. 207, 220-221 (1986). Section 1395oo(d),   which sets forth the powers and duties of the Board once its jurisdiction has been invoked, 3 explicitly provides that in making its decision whether to affirm, modify, or reverse the intermediary's decision, the Board can "make any other revisions on matters covered by such cost report . . . even though such matters were not considered by the intermediary in making such final determination.   " This language allows the Board, once it obtains jurisdiction pursuant to subsection (a), to review and revise a cost report with respect to matters not contested before the fiscal intermediary. The only limitation prescribed by Congress is that the matter must have been "covered by such cost report," that is, a cost or expense that was incurred within the period for which the cost report was filed, even if such cost or expense was not expressly claimed.
Neither the fiscal intermediary nor the Board has the authority to declare regulations invalid. 4 It does not follow, however, that the statute treats the two entities alike or that it requires the provider to announce its regulatory challenge at each level; for the Board has a statutory action that the fiscal intermediary does not have. Subsection (f)(1) grants providers the right to obtain judicial review of an action of the fiscal intermediary, but the predicate is that the Board must first make a determination that it is without authority to decide the matter because the provider's claim involves a question of law or regulations. 5 It is this determination of the Board, or alternatively the Board's   failure to act, that triggers the right of judicial review.
The Secretary notes that subsection (f)(1) posits review of an "action of the fiscal intermediary," and argues that without presenting the intermediary with the challenge to the regulation there can be no action to review.   The statute provides, however, that the intermediary has no authority to deviate from the rules and regulations and that the Board, not the fiscal intermediary, is to make the determination that it lacks the requisite authority to consider the validity of the regulation. Under this statutory scheme, requiring submission of the regulatory challenge to the fiscal intermediary is quite unnecessary. The Board has a role in shaping the controversy that is subject to judicial review; the fiscal intermediary does not.
Finally, the Secretary's proffered requirement of notice to the fiscal intermediary is internally inconsistent.   The Secretary cannot maintain, on the one hand, that it is of vital importance to present challenges to the Secretary's regulations in the first instance to the fiscal intermediary and, on the other, acknowledge that a mere cover letter would suffice because the fiscal intermediary lacks authority to rule on the challenge. By objecting to the regulation in the first instance in proceedings before the Board, the petitioners protected their right to judicial review.
We hold that the plain language of the statute demonstrates that the Provider Reimbursement Review Board had jurisdiction to entertain this action. The judgment of the Court of Appeals is reversed, and the case is remanded for further proceedings consistent with this opinion.
It is so ordered.
