OPINION
JUSTICE BLACKMUN delivered the opinion of the Court.
This case presents the question whether a court order compelling a target of a grand jury investigation to authorize foreign banks to disclose records of his accounts, without identifying those documents or acknowledging their existence, violates the target's Fifth Amendment privilege against self-incrimination.
I
Petitioner, named here as John Doe, is the target of a federal grand jury investigation into possible federal offenses  arising from suspected fraudulent manipulation of oil cargoes and receipt of unreported income.  Doe appeared before the grand jury pursuant to a subpoena that directed him to produce records of transactions in accounts at three named banks in the Cayman Islands and Bermuda.  Doe produced some bank records and testified that no additional records responsive to the subpoena were in his possession or control. When questioned about the existence or location of additional records, Doe invoked the Fifth Amendment privilege against self-incrimination.
The United States branches of the three foreign banks also were served with subpoenas commanding them to produce records of accounts over which Doe had signatory authority.  Citing their governments' bank-secrecy laws, which prohibit the disclosure of account records without the customer's consent, 1 the banks refused to comply.  See App. to Pet. for Cert. 17a, n. 2.  The Government then filed a motion with the United States District Court for the Southern District of Texas that the court order Doe to sign 12 forms consenting to disclosure of any bank records respectively relating to 12 foreign bank accounts over which the Government knew or suspected  that Doe had control.  The forms indicated the account numbers and described the documents that the Government wished the banks to produce.
The District Court denied the motion, reasoning that by signing the consent forms, Doe would necessarily be admitting the existence of the accounts.  The District Court believed, moreover, that if the banks delivered records pursuant to the consent forms, those forms would constitute "an admission that  exercised signatory authority over such accounts." Id., at 20a.  The court speculated that the Government in a subsequent proceeding then could argue that Doe must have guilty knowledge of the contents of the accounts. Thus, in the court's view, compelling Doe to sign the forms was compelling him "to perform a testimonial act that would entail admission of knowledge of the contents of potentially incriminating documents," id., at 20a, n. 6, and such compulsion was prohibited by the Fifth Amendment. The District Court also noted that Doe had not been indicted, and that his signing of the forms might provide the Government with the incriminating link necessary to obtain an indictment, the kind of "fishing expedition" that the Fifth Amendment was designed to prevent.  Id., at 21a.
The Government sought reconsideration.  Along with its motion, it submitted to the court  a revised proposed consent directive that was substantially the same as that approved by the Eleventh Circuit in United States v. Ghidoni, 732 F. 2d 814, cert. denied, 469 U.S. 932 (1984). The form purported to apply to any and all accounts over which Doe had a right of withdrawal, without acknowledging the existence of any such account. 2 The District Court denied this motion also, reasoning that compelling execution of the consent directive might lead to the uncovering and linking of Doe to accounts that the grand jury did not know were in existence.  The court concluded that execution of the proposed form would "admit signatory authority over the speculative accounts  would implicitly authenticate any records of the speculative accounts provided by the banks pursuant to the consent." App. to Pet. for Cert. 13a, n. 7.
The Court of Appeals for the Fifth Circuit reversed in an unpublished per curiam opinion, judgt. order reported at 775 F. 2d 300 (1985). Relying on its intervening decision in In re United States Grand Jury Proceedings (Cid), 767 F. 2d 1131 (1985), the court held that Doe could not assert his Fifth   Amendment privilege as a basis for refusing to sign the consent directive, because the form "did not have testimonial significance" and therefore its compelled execution would not violate Doe's Fifth Amendment rights.  App. to Pet. for Cert. 7a. 3
On remand, the District Court ordered petitioner to execute the consent directive. He refused.  The District Court accordingly  found petitioner in civil contempt and ordered that he be confined until he complied with the order.  Id., at 2a.  The court stayed imposition of sanction pending appeal and application for writ of certiorari.  Id., at 2a-3a.
The Fifth Circuit affirmed the contempt order, again in an unpublished per curiam, concluding that its prior ruling constituted the "law of the case" and was dispositive of Doe's appeal.  Id., at 3a; judgt. order reported at 812 F. 2d 1404 (1987). We granted certiorari, 484 U.S. 813 (1987), to resolve a conflict among the Courts of Appeals as to whether the compelled execution of a consent form directing the disclosure of foreign bank records is inconsistent with the Fifth Amendment. 4 We conclude that a court order compelling the execution of such a directive as is at issue here does not implicate the Amendment.
II
It is undisputed that   the contents of the foreign bank records sought by the Government are not privileged under the Fifth Amendment. See Braswell v. United States, ante, at 108-110; United States v. Doe, 465 U.S. 605 (1984); Fisher v. United States, 425 U.S. 391 (1976). There also is no question that the foreign banks cannot invoke the Fifth Amendment in declining to produce the documents; the privilege does not extend to such artificial entities.  See Braswell v. United States, ante, at 102-103; Bellis v. United States, 417 U.S. 85, 89-90 (1974). Similarly, petitioner asserts no Fifth Amendment right to prevent the banks from disclosing the account records, for the Constitution "necessarily does not proscribe incriminating statements elicited from another." Couch v. United States, 409 U.S. 322, 328 (1973). Petitioner's sole claim is that his execution of the consent forms directing the banks to release records as to which the banks believe he has the right of withdrawal has independent testimonial significance that will incriminate him, and that the Fifth Amendment prohibits governmental compulsion of that act.
The Self-Incrimination Clause  of the Fifth Amendment reads: "No person . . . shall be compelled in any criminal case to be a witness against himself." This Court has explained that   "the privilege protects a person only against being incriminated by his own compelled testimonial communications." Fisher v. United States, 425 U.S., at 409, citing Schmerber v. California, 384 U.S. 757 (1966); United States v. Wade, 388 U.S. 218 (1967); and Gilbert v. California, 388 U.S. 263 (1967). The execution of the consent directive at issue in this case obviously would be compelled, and we may assume that its execution would have an incriminating effect. 5 The question on which this case turns is whether the act of executing the form is a "testimonial communication." The parties disagree about both the meaning of "testimonial" and whether the consent directive fits the proposed definitions.
A
Petitioner contends that a compelled statement is testimonial if the Government could use the content of the speech or writing, as opposed to its physical characteristics, to further a criminal investigation of the witness.  The second half of petitioner's "testimonial" test is that the statement must be incriminating, which is, of course, already a separate requirement for invoking the privilege.  Thus, Doe contends, in essence, that every written and oral statement significant for its content is necessarily testimonial for purposes of the Fifth Amendment. 6 Under this view, the consent directive is testimonial because it is a declarative statement of consent made by Doe to the foreign banks, a statement that the Government will use to persuade the banks to produce potentially incriminating account records that would otherwise be unavailable to the grand jury.
The Government, on the other hand, suggests that a compelled statement is not testimonial for purposes of the privilege, unless it implicitly or explicitly relates a factual assertion or otherwise conveys information to the Government. It argues that, under this view, the consent directive is not   testimonial because neither the directive itself nor Doe's execution of the form discloses or communicates facts or information.  Petitioner disagrees.
The Government's view of the privilege, apparently accepted by the Courts of Appeals that have considered compelled consent forms, 7 is derived largely from this Court's decisions in Fisher and Doe.  The issue presented in those cases was whether the act of producing subpoenaed documents, not itself the making of a statement, might nonetheless have some protected testimonial aspects.  The Court concluded that the act of production could constitute protected testimonial communication because it might entail implicit statements of fact: by producing documents in compliance with a subpoena, the witness would admit that the papers existed, were in his possession or control, and were authentic.  United States v. Doe, 465 U.S., at 613, and n. 11; Fisher, 425 U.S., at 409-410;  id., at 428, 432 (concurring opinions).  See Braswell v. United States, ante, at 104; ante, at 122 (dissenting opinion).  Thus, the Court made clear that   the Fifth Amendment privilege against self-incrimination applies to acts that imply assertions of fact.
We reject petitioner's argument that this test does not control the determination as to when the privilege applies to oral or written statements.  While the Court in Fisher and Doe did not purport to announce a universal test for determining the scope of the privilege, it also did not purport to establish a more narrow boundary applicable to acts alone. To the contrary, the Court applied basic Fifth Amendment principles. 8 An examination of the Court's application of these principles in other cases indicates the Court's recognition that,   in order to be testimonial, an accused's communication must itself, explicitly or implicitly, relate a factual assertion or disclose information. 9 Only then is a person compelled to be a "witness" against himself.
This understanding is perhaps most clearly revealed in those cases in which the Court has held that certain acts, though incriminating, are not within the privilege.  Thus, a suspect may be compelled to furnish a blood sample, Schmerber v. California, 384 U.S., at 765; to provide a handwriting exemplar, Gilbert v. California, 388 U.S., at 266-267, or a voice exemplar, United States v. Dionisio, 410 U.S. 1, 7 (1973); to stand in a lineup, United States v. Wade, 388 U.S., at 221-222; and to wear particular clothing, Holt v. United States, 218 U.S. 245, 252-253 (1910) . These decisions are grounded on the proposition that "the privilege protects an accused only from being compelled to testify against himself, or otherwise provide the State with evidence of a testimonial or communicative nature." Schmerber, 384 U.S., at 761. The Court accordingly held that   the privilege was not implicated in each of those cases, because the suspect was not required "to disclose any knowledge he might have," or "to speak his guilt," Wade, 388 U.S., at 222-223. See Dionisio, 410 U.S., at 7; Gilbert, 388 U.S., at 266-267. It is the "extortion of information from the accused," Couch v. United States, 409 U.S., at 328,  the attempt to force him "to disclose the contents of his own mind," Curcio v. United States, 354 U.S. 118, 128 (1957) , that implicates the Self-Incrimination Clause.  See also Kastigar v. United States, 406 U.S. 441, 445 (1972) (the privilege "protects against any disclosures that the witness reasonably believes could be used in a criminal prosecution or could lead to other evidence that might be so used") (emphasis added).  "Unless some attempt is made to secure a communication -- written, oral or otherwise -- upon which reliance is to be placed as involving  consciousness of the facts and the operations of his mind in expressing it, the demand made upon him is not a testimonial one." 8 Wigmore ยง 2265, p. 386. 10
It is consistent with the history of and the policies underlying the Self-Incrimination Clause to hold that the privilege may be asserted only to resist compelled explicit or implicit disclosures of incriminating information. Historically, the privilege was intended to prevent the use of legal compulsion to extract from the accused a sworn communication of facts which would incriminate him.  Such was the process of the ecclesiastical courts and the Star Chamber -- the inquisitorial method of putting the accused upon his oath and compelling him to answer questions designed to uncover uncharged offenses, without evidence from another source.  See Andresen v. Maryland, 427 U.S. 463, 470-471 (1976); 8 Wigmore ยง 2250; E. Griswold, The Fifth Amendment Today 2-3 (1955).  The major thrust of the policies undergirding the privilege is to prevent such compulsion. The Self-Incrimination Clause reflects "'a judgment . . . that the prosecution should  be free to build up a criminal case, in whole or in part, with the assistance of enforced disclosures by the accused'" (emphasis added).  Ullmann v. United States, 350 U.S. 422, 427 (1956), quoting Maffie v. United States, 209 F. 2d 225, 227  (CA1 1954). The Court in Murphy v. Waterfront Comm'n of New York Harbor, 378 U.S. 52 (1964), explained that the privilege is founded on
"our unwillingness to subject those suspected of crime to the cruel trilemma of self-accusation, perjury or contempt; our preference for an accusatorial rather than an inquisitorial system of criminal justice; our fear that self-incriminating statements will be elicited by inhumane treatment and abuses; our sense of fair play which dictates 'a fair state-individual balance by requiring the government to leave the individual alone until good cause is shown for disturbing him and by requiring the government in its contest with the individual to shoulder the entire load,' . . .; our respect for the inviolability of the human personality and of the right of each individual 'to a private enclave where he may lead a private life,'   . . .; our distrust of self-deprecatory statements; and our realization that the privilege, while sometimes 'a shelter to the guilty,' is often 'a protection to the innocent.'" Id., at 55 (citations omitted).
These policies are served when the privilege is asserted to spare the accused from having to reveal, directly or indirectly, his knowledge  of facts relating him to the offense or from having to share his thoughts and beliefs with the Government. 11
We are not persuaded by petitioner's arguments that our articulation of the privilege fundamentally alters the power of the Government to compel an accused to assist in his prosecution.  There are very few instances in which a verbal statement, either oral or written, will not convey information or assert facts.  The vast majority of verbal statements thus will be testimonial and, to that extent at least, will fall within the privilege. 12 Furthermore, it should be remembered that there are many restrictions on the government's prosecutorial practices in addition to the Self-Incrimination Clause.  Indeed, there are other protections against governmental efforts to compel an unwilling suspect to cooperate in an investigation, including efforts to obtain   information from him. 13 We are confident that these provisions, together with the Self-Incrimination Clause, will continue to prevent abusive investigative techniques.
B
The difficult question whether a compelled communication is testimonial for purposes of applying the Fifth Amendment often depends on the facts and circumstances of the particular case.  Fisher, 425 U.S., at 410. This case is no exception.  We turn, then, to consider whether Doe's execution of the consent directive at issue here would have testimonial significance.  We agree with the Court of Appeals that it would not, because neither the form, nor its execution, communicates any factual assertions, implicit or explicit, or conveys any information to  the Government.
The consent directive itself is not "testimonial." It is carefully drafted not to make reference to a specific account, but only to speak in the hypothetical. Thus, the form does not acknowledge that an account in a foreign financial institution is in existence or that it is controlled by petitioner.  Nor does the form indicate whether documents or any other information relating to petitioner are present at the foreign bank, assuming that such an account does exist.  Cf.  United States v. Ghidoni, 732 F. 2d, at 818; In re Grand Jury Proceedings (Ranauro), 814 F. 2d 791, 793 (CA1 1987); In re Grand Jury Subpoena, 826 F. 2d 1166, 1170 (CA2 1987), cert. pending sub nom. Coe v. United States, No. 87-517; In re United States Grand Jury Proceedings (Cid), 767 F. 2d, at 1132 . The form does not even identify the relevant bank.  Although the executed form allows the Government access to a potential source of evidence, the directive itself does not point the Government toward hidden accounts or otherwise provide information that will assist the prosecution in uncovering evidence.  The Government must locate that evidence "'by the independent labor of its officers,'" Estelle v. Smith, 451 U.S. 454, 462 (1981), quoting Culombe v. Connecticut, 367 U.S. 568, 582 (1961) (opinion announcing the judgment).  As in Fisher, the Government is not relying upon the "'truthtelling'" of Doe's directive to show the existence of, or his control over, foreign bank account records.  See 425 U.S., at 411, quoting 8 Wigmore ยง 2264, p. 380.
Given the consent directive's phraseology, petitioner's compelled act of executing the form has no testimonial significance either.  By signing the form, Doe makes no statement, explicit or implicit, regarding the existence of a foreign bank account or his control over any such account.  Nor would his execution of the form admit the authenticity of any records produced by the bank.  Cf.  United States v. Ghidoni, 732 F. 2d, at 818-819; In re Grand Jury Subpoena, 826 F. 2d, at 1170. Not only does the directive express no view on the issue, but because petitioner did not prepare the document, any statement by Doe to the effect that it is authentic would not establish that the records are genuine.  Cf.  Fisher, 425 U.S., at 413. Authentication evidence would have to be provided by bank officials.
Finally, we cannot agree with petitioner's contention that his execution of the directive admits  or asserts Doe's consent.  The form does not state that Doe "consents" to the release of bank records.  Instead, it states that the directive "shall be construed as consent" with respect to Cayman Islands and Bermuda bank-secrecy laws.  Because the directive explicitly indicates that it was signed pursuant to a court order, Doe's compelled execution of the form sheds no light on his actual intent or state of mind. 14 The form does "direct" the bank to disclose account information and release any records that "may" exist and for which Doe "may" be a relevant principal.  But   directing the recipient of a communication to do something is not an assertion of fact or, at least in this context, a disclosure of information.  In its testimonial significance, the execution of such a directive is analogous to the production of a handwriting sample or voice exemplar: it is a nontestimonial act.  In neither case is the suspect's action compelled to obtain "any knowledge he might have." Wade, 388 U.S., at 222. 15
We read the directive as equivalent to a statement by Doe that, although he expresses no opinion about the existence of, or his control over, any such account, he is authorizing the bank to disclose information relating to accounts over which, in the bank's opinion, Doe can exercise the right of withdrawal.  Cf.  Ghidoni, 732 F. 2d, at 818, n. 8 (similarly interpreting a nearly identical consent directive).  When forwarded to the bank along with a subpoena, the executed directive, if effective under local law, 16 will simply make it possible   for the recipient bank to comply with the Government's request to produce such records.  As a result, if the Government obtains bank records after Doe signs the directive, the only factual statement made by anyone will be the bank's implicit declaration, by its act of production in response to the subpoena, that it believes the accounts to be petitioner's.  Cf.  Fisher, 425 U.S., at 410, 412-413. The fact that the bank's customer has directed the disclosure of his records "would say nothing about the correctness of the bank's representations." Brief for United States 21-22.  Indeed, the Second and Eleventh Circuits have concluded that consent directives  virtually identical to the one here are inadmissible as an admission by the signator of either control or existence.  In re Grand Jury Subpoena, 826 F. 2d, at 1171; Ghidoni, 732 F. 2d, at 818, and n. 9.
III
Because the consent directive is not testimonial in nature, we conclude that the District Court's order compelling petitioner to sign the directive does not violate his Fifth Amendment privilege against self-incrimination. Accordingly, the judgment of the Court of Appeals is affirmed.
It is so ordered.
<dissent author="STEVENS" text="TRUE">
DISSENT BY: STEVENS
JUSTICE STEVENS, dissenting.
A defendant can be compelled to produce material evidence that is incriminating. Fingerprints, blood samples, voice exemplars, handwriting specimens, or other items of physical evidence may be extracted from a defendant against his will. But can he be compelled to use his mind to assist the prosecution in convicting him of a crime?  I think not.  He may in some cases be forced to surrender a key to a strongbox containing incriminating documents, but I do not believe he can be compelled to reveal the combination to his wall safe -- by word or deed.
The document the Government seeks to extract from John Doe purports to order third parties to take action that will lead to the discovery of incriminating evidence. The directive itself may not betray any knowledge petitioner may have about the circumstances of the offenses being investigated by  the grand jury, but it nevertheless purports to evidence a reasoned decision by Doe to authorize action by others.  The forced execution of this document differs from the forced production of physical evidence just as human beings differ from other animals. 1
If John Doe can be compelled to use his mind to assist the Government in developing its case, I think he will be forced "to be a witness against himself." The fundamental purpose of the Fifth Amendment was to mark the line between the kind of inquisition conducted by the Star Chamber and what we proudly describe as our accusatorial system of justice.  It   reflects "our respect for the inviolability of the human personality," Murphy v. Waterfront Comm'n of New York Harbor, 378 U.S. 52, 55 (1964). "t is an explicit right of a natural person, protecting the realm of human thought and expression." Braswell v. United States, ante, at 119 (KENNEDY, J., dissenting). In my opinion that protection gives John Doe the right to refuse to sign the directive authorizing access to the records of any bank account that he may control. 2 Accordingly, I respectfully dissent.
