OPINION
JUSTICE MARSHALL delivered the opinion of the Court.
In Finnegan v. Leu, 456 U.S. 431 (1982),  we held that the discharge of a union's appointed business agents by the union president, following his election over the incumbent for whom the business agents had campaigned, did not violate the Labor-Management Reporting and Disclosure Act of 1959 (LMRDA or Act), 73 Stat. 519, 29 U. S. C. § 401 et seq. The question presented in this case is whether the removal of an elected business agent, in retaliation for statements he made at a union meeting in opposition to a dues increase sought by the union trustee, violated the LMRDA.  The Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit held that the LMRDA protected the business agent from removal under these circumstances.  We granted certiorari to address this important issue concerning the internal governance of labor unions, 485 U.S. 958   (1988), and now affirm.
I
In June 1981, respondent Edward Lynn was elected to a 3-year term as a business representative of petitioner Local 75 of the Sheet Metal Workers' International Association (Local), an affiliate of petitioner Sheet Metal Workers' International Association (International). 1 Lynn was instrumental in organizing fellow members of the Local who were concerned about a financial crisis plaguing the Local.  These members, who called themselves the Sheet Metal Club Local 75 (Club), published leaflets that demonstrated, on the basis of Department of Labor statistics, that the Local's officials were spending far more than the officials of two other sheet metal locals in the area.  The Club urged the Local's officials to reduce expenditures rather than increase dues in order to alleviate the Local's financial problems.  A majority of the Local's members apparently agreed, for they defeated three successive proposals to increase dues.
Following the third vote, in June 1982, the Local's 17 officials, including Lynn, sent a letter to the International's general president, requesting that he "immediately take whatever action   . . . necessary including, but not limited to, trusteeship to put this local on a sound financial basis." App. 14.  Invoking his authority under the International's constitution, the general president responded by placing the Local under a trusteeship and by delegating to the trustee, Richard Hawkins, the authority "to supervise and direct" the affairs of the Local, "including, but not limited to, the authority to suspend local union . . . officers, business managers, or business representatives." Art. 3, § 2(c), Constitution and Ritual of the Sheet Metal Workers' International Association, Revised and Amended by Authority of the Thirty-Fifth General Convention, St. Louis, Missouri (1978).
Within a month of his appointment, Hawkins decided that a dues increase was needed to rectify the Local's financial situation.  Recognizing that he lacked authority to impose a dues increase unilaterally, Hawkins prepared a proposal to that effect which he submitted to and which was approved by the Local's executive board.  A special meeting was then convened to put the dues proposal to a membership vote.  Prior to the meeting, Hawkins advised Lynn that he expected Lynn's support.  Lynn responded that he first wanted a commitment to reduce expenditures, which Hawkins declined to provide.  Lynn thus spoke in opposition to the dues proposal at the special meeting. The proposal was defeated by the members in a secret ballot vote.  Five days later, Hawkins notified Lynn that he was being removed "indefinitely" from his position as business representative specifically because of his outspoken opposition to the dues increase.  App. 20.
After exhausting his intraunion remedies, Lynn brought suit in District Court under § 102 of the LMRDA, 29 U. S. C. § 412, claiming, inter alia, that his removal from office violated § 101(a)(2), the free speech provision of Title I of the LMRDA, 29 U. S. C. § 411(a)(2). 2 The District Court   granted summary judgment for petitioners, reasoning that, under Finnegan v. Leu, supra, " union member's statutory right to oppose union policies affords him no protection against dismissal from employment as an agent of the union because of such opposition." App. to Pet. for Cert. 36a.
The Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit reversed.  804 F. 2d 1472 (1986). The court held that Finnegan did not control where the dismissed union employee was an elected, rather than an appointed, official because removal of the former "can only impede the democratic governance of the union." 804 F. 2d, at 1479. "Allowing the removal of an elected official for exercising his free speech rights," the court explained, "would in effect nullify a member's right to vote for a candidate whose views he supports," id., at 1479, n. 7, and would impinge on the official's right to "spea . . . for himself as a member" of the union. Id., at 1479. The court also rejected the contention that Lynn's removal was valid because it was carried out under the trusteeship, stating that, "while a trustee may remove an elected local officer for financial misconduct, or incompetence, it may not do so in retaliation for the exercise of a right protected by the LMRDA, such as free speech." Id., at 1480 (citations omitted). 3
II
The LMRDA "was the product of congressional concern with widespread abuses of power by union leadership." Finnegan, 456 U.S., at 435.The major reform bills originally introduced in the Senate, as well as the bill ultimately reported out of the Committee on Labor and Public Welfare, S. 1555, 86th Cong., 1st Sess. (1959), dealt primarily with disclosure requirements, elections, and trusteeships. The legislation that evolved into Title I of the LMRDA, the "Bill of Rights of Members of Labor Organizations," was adopted as an amendment on the Senate floor by "legislators  feared that the bill did not go far enough because it did not provide general protection to union members who spoke out against the union leadership." Steelworkers v. Sadlowski, 457 U.S. 102, 109 (1982). 4 "esigned to guarantee every member equal voting rights, rights of free speech and assembly, and a right to sue," ibid., the amendment was "aimed at enlarged protection for members of unions paralleling certain rights guaranteed by the Federal Constitution." Finnegan, 456 U.S., at 435. In providing such protection, Congress sought to further the basic objective of the LMRDA: "ensuring that unions  democratically governed and responsive to the will of their memberships." Id., at 436; see also Reed v. Transportation Union, ante, at 325; Sadlowski, supra, at 112.
We considered this basic objective in Finnegan, where several members of a local union who held staff positions as business agents were discharged by the local's newly elected president.  The business agents had been appointed by the incumbent president and had openly supported him in his unsuccessful reelection campaign.  They subsequently sought relief under § 102 of the LMRDA, claiming that discharge from their appointed positions constituted an "infringement" of their free speech and equal voting rights as guaranteed by Title I.
We held that the business agents could not establish a violation of § 102 because their claims were inconsistent with the LMRDA's "overriding objective" of democratic union governance. 456 U.S., at 441.   Permitting a victorious candidate to appoint his own staff did not frustrate that objective; rather, it ensured a union's "responsiveness to the mandate of the union election." Ibid. We thus concluded that the LMRDA did not "restrict the freedom of an elected union leader to choose a staff whose views are compatible with his own." Ibid. In rejecting the business agents' claim, we did not consider whether the retaliatory removal of an elected official violates the LMRDA and, if so, whether it is significant that the removal is carried out under a validly imposed trusteeship. It is to these questions that we now turn. 5
A
Petitioners argue that Lynn's Title I rights were not "infringed" for purposes of § 102 because Lynn, like other members of the Local, was not prevented from attending the special meeting, expressing his views on Hawkins' dues proposal, or casting his vote, and because he remains a member of the Local.  Under this view, Lynn's status as an elected, rather than an appointed, official is essentially immaterial and the loss of union employment cannot amount to a Title I violation.
This argument is unpersuasive.  In the first place, we acknowledged in Finnegan that the business agents' Title I rights had been interfered with, albeit indirectly, because the agents had been forced to choose between their rights and their jobs.  See id., at 440, 442. This was so even though the business agents were not actually prevented from exercising their Title I rights.  The same is true here.  Lynn was able to attend the special meeting, to express views in opposition to Hawkins' dues proposal, and to cast his vote.  In taking these actions, Lynn "was exercising . . . membership right protected by section 101(a)." 804 F. 2d, at 1479.  Given that Lynn was removed from his post as a direct result of his decision to express disagreement with Hawkins' dues proposal at the special meeting, and that his removal presumably discouraged him from speaking out in the future, Lynn paid a price for the exercise of his membership rights.
This is not, of course, the end of the analysis.  Whether such interference with Title I rights gives rise to a cause of action under § 102 must be judged by reference to the LMRDA's basic objective: "to ensure that unions  democratically governed, and responsive to the will of the union membership as expressed in open, periodic elections." Finnegan, 456 U.S., at 441.In Finnegan, this goal was furthered when the newly elected union president discharged the appointed staff of the ousted incumbent. Indeed, the basis for the Finnegan holding was the recognition that the newly elected president's victory might be rendered meaningless if a disloyal staff were able to thwart the implementation of his programs.  While such patronage-related discharges had some chilling effect on the free speech rights of the business agents, we found this  concern outweighed by the need to vindicate the democratic choice made by the union electorate.
The consequences of the removal of an elected official are much different.  To begin with,   when an elected official like Lynn   is removed from his post, the union members are denied the representative of their choice.  Indeed, Lynn's removal deprived the membership of his leadership, knowledge, and advice at a critical time for the Local.  His removal, therefore, hardly was "an integral part of ensuring a union administration's responsiveness to the mandate of the union election." Ibid.; see also Wirtz v. Hotel Employees, 391 U.S. 492, 497 (1968).
Furthermore, the potential chilling effect on Title I free speech rights is more pronounced when elected officials are discharged. Not only is the fired official likely to be chilled in the exercise of his own free speech rights, but so are the members who voted for him.  See Hall v. Cole, 412 U.S. 1, 8 (1973). Seeing Lynn removed from his post just five days after he led the fight to defeat yet another dues increase proposal, 6 other members of the Local may well have concluded that one challenged the union's hierarchy, if at all, at one's peril.  This is precisely what Congress sought to prevent when it passed the LMRDA.  "It recognized that democracy would be assured only if union members are free to discuss union policies and criticize the leadership without fear of reprisal." Sadlowski, 457 U.S., at 112. We thus hold that Lynn's retaliatory removal stated a cause of action under § 102. 7
B
Petitioners next contend that, even if the removal of an elected official for the exercise of his Title I rights ordinarily states a cause of action under § 102, a different result obtains here because Lynn was removed during a trusteeship lawfully imposed under Title III of the LMRDA, 73 Stat. 530-532, 29 U. S. C. §§ 461-466.
We disagree.  In the first place, we find nothing in the language of the LMRDA or its legislative history to suggest that Congress intended Title I rights to fall by the wayside whenever a trusteeship is imposed.  Had Congress contemplated such a result, we would expect to find some discussion of it in the text of the LMRDA or its legislative history. 8 Given  Congress' silence on this point,   a trustee's authority under Title III ordinarily should be construed in a manner consistent with the protections provided in Title I.  See McDonald v. Oliver, 525 F. 2d 1217, 1229 (CA5), cert. denied, 429 U.S. 817 (1976); United Brotherhood of Carpenters & Joiners v. Brown, 343 F. 2d 872, 882-883 (CA10 1965);  United Brotherhood of Carpenters & Joiners v. Dale, 118 LRRM 3160, 3167 (CD Cal. 1985).
Whether there are any circumstances under which a trustee acting pursuant to Title III can override Title I free speech rights is a question we need not confront. 9   Section 101(a)(3) of Title I, 29 U. S. C. § 411(a)(3), guarantees to the members of a local union the right to vote on any dues increase, 10 and, as petitioners conceded at oral argument, this critical Title I right does not vanish with the imposition of a trusteeship. Tr. of Oral. Arg. 5.  A trustee seeking to restore the financial stability of a local union through a dues increase thus is required to seek the approval of the union's members.  In order to ensure that the union members' democratic right to decide on a dues proposal is meaningful, the right to exchange views on the advantages and disadvantages of such a measure must be protected.  A trustee should not be able to control the debate over an issue which, by statute, is beyond his control.
In the instant case, Lynn's statements concerning the proposed dues increase were entitled to protection.  Petitioners point to nothing in the International's constitution to suggest that the nature of Lynn's office changed once the trusteeship was imposed, so that Lynn was obligated to support Hawkins' positions.  Thus, at the special meeting, Lynn was free to express the view apparently shared by a majority of the Local's members  that the best solution to the Local's financial problems was not an increase in dues, but a reduction in expenditures.  Under these circumstances, Hawkins violated Lynn's Title I rights when he removed Lynn from his post. 11
III
For the reasons stated herein, we conclude that Lynn's removal from his position as business representative constituted a violation of Title I of the LMRDA.  Accordingly, the judgment of the Court of Appeals is
Affirmed.
<concur author="WHITE_B" text="TRUE">
CONCUR BY: WHITE
JUSTICE WHITE, concurring in the judgment.
Finnegan v. Leu, 456 U.S. 431, 436-437 (1982),  observed that "t is readily apparent, both from the language of these provisions and from the legislative history of Title I, that it was rank-and-file union members -- not union officers or employees, as such -- whom Congress sought to protect" (footnote omitted).  If that is so and if a case involves speech in the capacity of an officer, it should make no difference that the officer is elected rather than appointed. But in Finnegan, it was asserted that the officer was removed because of his campaign activities, as a member, in a union election, which was speech protected by Title I.  In response, the Court said that under the union constitution the newly elected president had power to appoint and remove officers and that he was entitled to start out with officers in whom he had confidence.  This was sufficient to dispose of the officers' claim under Title I.
In the case before us, the speech for which respondent was removed was also speech in the capacity of a member.  The duties of a union business   agent are defined in the union constitution.  Those duties relate primarily to collective bargaining and administering the collective-bargaining contract. They do not seem to include supporting the union president's proposal to increase union dues; and if they did, I am not so sure that respondent would have spoken out against the dues increase at all.
In this case, unlike Finnegan, respondent was not discharged by an incoming elected president with power to appoint his own staff, but by a trustee whose power to dismiss and appoint officers, for all that is shown here, went no further than the Local's president to discharge for cause, i. e., for incompetence or other behavior disqualifying them for the tasks they were expected to perform as officers.  Respondent's speech opposing the dues increase was the speech of a member about a matter the members were to resolve, and there is no countervailing interest rooted in union democracy that suffices to override that protection.
Thus, I doubt that resolution of cases like this turns on whether an officer is elected or appointed. Rather its inquiry is whether an officer speaks as a member or as an officer in discharge of his assigned duties.  If the former, he is protected by Title I.  If the latter, the issue becomes whether other considerations deprive the officer/member of the protections of that Title.
