OPINION
JUSTICE STEVENS delivered the opinion of the
Court. +
The Immigration Reform and Control Act of 1986 (Reform Act) 1 constituted a
major statutory response to the vast tide of illegal immigration that had
produced a "shadow population" of literally millions of undocumented aliens in
the United States. On the one hand, Congress sought to stem the tide
by making the plight of the undocumented alien even more onerous in the future
than it had been in the past; thus, the Reform Act imposed criminal sanctions on
employers who hired undocumented workers 2 and made a number of
federally funded welfare benefits unavailable to these aliens. 3 On the other
hand, in recognition that a large segment of the shadow population played a
useful and constructive role in the American economy, 4 but continued to reside
in perpetual fear, 5 the Reform Act established two broad  
amnesty programs to allow existing undocumented aliens to emerge from the
shadows.
The first amnesty program permitted any alien who had resided in the United
States continuously and unlawfully since January 1, 1982, to qualify for an
adjustment of his or her status to that of a lawful permanent resident. See 100
Stat. 3394, as amended, 8 U. S. C. § 1255a. The second program required the
Attorney General to adjust the status of any alien farmworker who could
establish that he or she had resided in the United States and performed at least
90 days of qualifying agricultural work during the 12-month period prior to May
1, 1986, provided that the alien could also establish his or her admissibility
in the United States as an immigrant. The Reform Act required the Attorney
General first to adjust the status of these aliens to "special agricultural
workers" (SAW's) lawfully admitted for temporary residence, see 100 Stat. 3417,
as amended, 8 U. S. C. § 1160(a)(1), and then eventually to aliens lawfully
admitted for permanent residence, see § 1160(a)(2).
This case relates only to the SAW amnesty program. Although
additional issues were resolved by the District Court and the Court of
Appeals, the only question presented to us is whether § 210(e) of the
Immigration and Nationality Act (INA), which was added by § 302(a) of the Reform
Act and sets forth the administrative and judicial review provisions of the SAW
program, see 8 U. S. C. § 1160(e), precludes a federal district court from
exercising general federal-question jurisdiction over an action alleging a
pattern or practice of procedural due process violations by the Immigration and
Naturalization Service (INS) in its administration of the SAW program. We hold
that given the absence of clear congressional language mandating
preclusion of federal jurisdiction and the nature of respondents' requested
relief, the District Court had jurisdiction to hear respondents' constitutional
and statutory challenges to INS procedures. Were we to hold otherwise and
instead require respondents to avail themselves of the limited judicial review
procedures set forth in § 210(e) of the INA, meaningful judicial review of their
statutory and constitutional claims would be foreclosed.
I
The Reform Act provided three important benefits to an applicant for SAW
status. First, the mere filing of a "nonfrivolous application" entitled the
alien to a work authorization that would remain valid during the entire period
that the application was being processed. See 8 U. S. C. § 1160(d)(2)(B).
Second, regardless of the disposition of the application, the Reform
Act expressly prohibited the Government from using any information in the
application for enforcement purposes. Thus, the application process could not be
used as a means of identifying deportable aliens; rather, the initiation of a
deportation proceeding had to be based on evidence obtained from an independent
source. See § 1160(b)(6). Third,  if SAW status was granted, the alien became a
lawful temporary resident, see § 1160(a)(1), and, in due course, could obtain
the status of a permanent resident, see § 1160(a)(2).
In recognition that the fear of prosecution or deportation would cause
many undocumented aliens to be reluctant to come forward and disclose their
illegal status, the Reform Act directed the Attorney General to enlist the
assistance of a variety of nonfederal organizations to encourage aliens to apply
and to provide them with counsel and assistance during the application process.
These "qualified . . . designated entities" (QDE's), which included private
entities such as farm labor organizations and associations of agricultural
employers as well as qualified state, local, and community groups, were
not allowed to forward applications for SAW status to the Attorney General
unless the applicant consented. See §§ 1160(b)(2), (b)(4).
The Reform Act provided that SAW status applications could be filed with a
specially created legalization office (LO), or with a QDE, which would forward
applications to the appropriate LO, during an 18-month period commencing on June
1, 1987. See § 1160(b)(1)(A).   Regulations adopted by the INS to
administer the program provided for a personal interview of each applicant at an
LO. See 8 CFR § 210.2(c)(2)(iv) (1990).   In the application, the alien had
to prove by a preponderance of the evidence that he or she worked the requisite
90 days of qualifying seasonal agricultural services. See §§ 210.3(a), (b)(1).
To meet the burden of proof, the applicant was required to present evidence of
eligibility independent of his or her own testimony. See § 210.3(b)(2). The
applicant could meet this burden through production of his or her employer's
payroll records, see 8 U. S. C. § 1160(b)(3)(B)(ii), or through submission of
affidavits "by agricultural producers, foremen, farm labor contractors, union
officials, fellow employees, or other persons with specific knowledge of the
applicant's employment," see 8 CFR § 210.3(c)(3) (1990).   At the
conclusion of the interview and of the review of the application materials, the
LO could deny the application or make a recommendation to a regional processing
facility that the application be either granted or denied. See § 210.1(q). A
denial, whether at the regional or local level, could be appealed to
the legalization appeals unit, which was authorized to make the final
administrative decision in each individual case. See § 103.3(a)(2)(iii).
The Reform Act expressly prohibited judicial review of such a final
administrative determination of SAW status except as authorized by §
210(e)(3)(A) of the amended INA. That subsection permitted "judicial
review of such a denial only in the judicial review of an order of exclusion
or deportation." 6 In view of the fact that   the courts of
appeals constitute the only fora for judicial review of deportation orders, see
75 Stat. 651, as amended, 8 U. S. C. § 1105a, the statute plainly foreclosed any
review in the district courts of individual denials of SAW status applications.
Moreover, absent initiation of a deportation proceeding against an unsuccessful
applicant, judicial review of such individual determinations was completely
foreclosed.
II
This action was filed in the District Court for the Southern District of Florida
by the Haitian Refugee Center, the Migration and Refugee Services of the Roman
Catholic Diocese of Palm Beach, 7 and 17 unsuccessful individual SAW applicants.
The plaintiffs sought relief on behalf of a class of alien farmworkers who
either had been or would be injured by unlawful practices and policies adopted
by the INS in its administration of the SAW program. The complaint
alleged that the interview process was conducted in an arbitrary fashion that
deprived applicants of the due process guaranteed by the Fifth
Amendment to the Constitution. Among other charges, the plaintiffs alleged that
INS procedures did not allow SAW applicants to be apprised of or to be given
opportunity to challenge adverse evidence on which denials were  
predicated, that applicants were denied the opportunity to present witnesses on
their own behalf, that non-English speaking Haitian applicants were unable to
communicate effectively with LO's because competent interpreters were not
provided, and that no verbatim recording of the interview was made, thus
inhibiting even any meaningful administrative review of application denials by
LO's or regional processing facilities. See App. 44-45; Haitian Refugee Center,
Inc. v. Nelson, 694 F. Supp. 864, 867 (SD Fla. 1988).
After an evidentiary hearing, the District Court ruled that it had
jurisdiction, that the case should proceed as a class action, and that a
preliminary injunction should issue. The court recognized that individual aliens
could not contest the denial of their SAW applications "unless and until the INS
instituted deportation proceedings against them," but accepted jurisdiction
because the complaint "does not challenge any individual determination of any
application for SAW status but rather attacks the manner in which the entire
program is being implemented, allegations beyond the scope of administrative
review." 8 On the merits, the District Court found that a number of INS
practices violated the Reform Act and were unconstitutional, 9 and entered an
injunction requiring the INS to vacate large categories of denials, 10 and to
modify its practices in certain respects. 11
The Court of Appeals affirmed. On the merits, it upheld all of the
findings and conclusions of the District Court, and it also rejected
each of the Government's jurisdictional arguments. Relying on earlier Circuit
precedent, it held that the statutory bar to judicial review of individual
determinations was inapplicable:
"In Jean v. Nelson, 727 F.2d 957 (11th Cir. 1984) (in banc), aff'd,
472 U.S. 846, 86 L. Ed. 2d 664, 105 S. Ct. 2992 . . . (1985), we
reaffirmed that section 106 of the INA (Codified at 8 U. S. C. § 1105a
) does not deprive district courts of jurisdiction to review
allegations of systematic abuses by INS officials.  Jean, 727 F.2d at
980. We explained that to postpone 'judicial resolution of a disputed
issue that affects an entire class of aliens until an individual
petitioner has an opportunity to litigate it on habeas corpus would
foster the very delay and procedural redundancy that Congress sought
to eliminate in passing § 1105a.' Id. In this action, appellees do not
challenge the merits of any individual status determination; rather .
. . they contend that defendants' policies and practices in processing
SAW applications deprive them of their statutory and constitutional
rights." Haitian Refugee Center, Inc. v. Nelson, 872 F.2d 1555, 1560
(CA11 1989).
In their certiorari petition, petitioners did not seek review of
the District Court's rulings on the merits or the form of its injunctive relief.
Our grant of certiorari is therefore limited to the jurisdictional question.
III
We preface our analysis of petitioners' position with an
identification of matters that are not in issue. First, it is undisputed that
SAW status is an important benefit for a previously undocumented alien. This
status not only protects the alien from deportation; it also creates job
opportunities that are not available to an alien whose application is denied.
Indeed, the denial of SAW status places the alien in an even worse position than
he or she was in before the Reform Act was passed because lawful employment
opportunities are no longer available to such persons.  
Thus, the successful applicant for SAW status acquires a measure of freedom to
work and to live openly without fear of deportation or arrest that is markedly
different from that of the unsuccessful applicant. Even disregarding the risk of
deportation, the impact of a denial on the opportunity to obtain gainful
employment is plainly sufficient to mandate constitutionally fair procedures in
the application process. At no time in this litigation have petitioners asserted
a right to employ arbitrary procedures, or questioned their obligation to afford
SAW status applicants due process of law.
Nor, at this stage of the litigation, is there any dispute that the INS
routinely and persistently violated the Constitution and statutes in processing
SAW applications. Petitioners do not deny that those violations caused injury in
fact to the two organizational plaintiffs as well as to the individual members
of the plaintiff class. Although it does not do so explicitly, petitioners'
argument assumes that the District Court would have federal-question
jurisdiction over the entire case if Congress had not, through the Reform Act,
added § 210(e) to the INA. The narrow issue, therefore, is whether § 210(e),
which bars judicial review of individual determinations except in deportation
proceedings, also forecloses this general challenge to the INS' unconstitutional
practices.
IV
Petitioners' entire jurisdictional argument rests on their
view that respondents' constitutional challenge is an action seeking "judicial
review of a determination respecting an application for adjustment of status"
and that district court jurisdiction over the action is therefore barred by the
plain language of § 210(e)(1) of the amended INA. See 8 U. S. C. § 1160 (e)(1).
12 The critical words in § 210(e)(1), however, describe the provision
as referring only to review "of a determination respecting an application" for
SAW status (emphasis added).   Significantly, the reference to
"a determination" describes a single act rather than a group of decisions or a
practice or procedure employed in making decisions. Moreover, when § 210(e)(3),
see 8 U. S. C. § 1160(e)(3), further clarifies that the only judicial review
permitted is in the context of a deportation proceeding, it refers to "judicial
review of such a denial" -- again referring to a single act, and again making
clear that the earlier reference to "a determination respecting an application"
describes the denial of an individual application. We therefore agree with the
District Court's and the Court of Appeals' reading of this language as
describing the process of direct review of individual denials of SAW status,
rather than as referring to general collateral challenges to unconstitutional
practices and policies used by the agency in processing applications.
This reading of the Reform Act's review provision is supported by the
language in § 210(e)(3)(B) of the INA,   which provides that judicial
review "shall be based solely upon the administrative record established at the
time of the review by the appellate authority and the findings of fact and
determinations contained in such record shall be conclusive unless the applicant
can establish abuse of discretion or that the findings are directly contrary to
clear and convincing facts contained in the record considered as a whole." 8 U.
S. C. § 1160(e)(3)(B). This provision incorporates an assumption that the
limited review provisions of § 210(e) apply only to claims that have been
subjected to administrative consideration and that have resulted in the creation
of an adequate administrative record. However, the record created during the SAW
administrative review process consists solely of a completed application form, a
report of medical examination, any documents or affidavits that evidence an
applicant's agricultural employment and residence, and notes, if any, from an LO
interview -- all relating to a single SAW applicant. Because the administrative
appeals process does not address the kind of procedural and constitutional
claims respondents bring in this action, limiting judicial review of these
claims to the procedures set forth in § 210(e) is not contemplated by
the language of that provision.
Moreover, the "abuse-of-discretion" standard of judicial review under §
210(e)(3)(B) would make no sense if we were to read the Reform Act as requiring
constitutional and statutory challenges to INS procedures to be subject to its
specialized review provision.   Although the abuse-of-discretion standard
is appropriate for judicial review of an administrative adjudication of the
facts of an individual application for SAW status, such a standard does not
apply to constitutional or statutory claims, which are reviewed de novo by the
courts. The language of § 210(e)(3)(B) thus lends substantial credence to the
conclusion that the Reform Act's review provision does not apply to
challenges to INS' practices and procedures in administering the SAW program.
Finally, we note that had Congress intended the limited review provisions of §
210(e) of the INA to encompass challenges to INS procedures and practices, it
could easily have used broader statutory language. Congress could, for example,
have modeled § 210(e) on the more expansive language in the general
grant of district court jurisdiction under Title II of the INA by channeling
into the Reform Act's special review procedures "all causes . . . arising under
any of the provisions" of the legalization program. 66 Stat. 230, 8 U. S. C. §
1329. It moreover could have modeled § 210(e) on 38 U. S. C. § 211(a), which
governs review of veterans' benefits claims, by referring to review "on all
questions of law and fact" under the SAW legalization program.
Given Congress' choice of statutory language, we conclude that
challenges to the procedures used by INS do not fall within the scope of §
210(e). Rather, we hold that § 210(e)   applies only to review of denials
of individual SAW applications. Because respondents' action does not seek review
on the merits of a denial of a particular application, the District Court's
general federal-question jurisdiction under 28 U. S. C. § 1331 to hear this
action remains unimpaired by § 210(e).
V
Petitioners place their principal reliance on our decision in Heckler v. Ringer,
466 U.S. 602, 80 L. Ed. 2d 622, 104 S. Ct. 2013 (1984). The four respondents in
Ringer wanted to establish a right to reimbursement under the Medicare Act for a
particular form of surgery that three of them had undergone and the fourth
allegedly needed. They sought review of the Secretary's policy of refusing
reimbursement for that surgery in an original action filed in the District
Court, without exhausting the procedures specified in the statute for processing
reimbursement claims. The District Court dismissed the case for lack of
jurisdiction because the essence of the complaint was a claim of entitlement to
payment for the surgical procedure. With respect to the three
respondents who had had the surgery, we concluded that "it makes no sense" to
construe their claims "as anything more than, at bottom, a claim that they
should be paid for their BCBR  surgery," id.,
at 614, since success in their challenge of the Secretary's policy denying
reimbursement would have the practical effect of also deciding their claims for
benefits on the merits. "Indeed," we noted, " the relief that respondents seek
to redress their supposed 'procedural' objections is the invalidation of the
Secretary's current policy and a 'substantive' declaration from her that the
expenses of BCBR surgery are reimbursable under the Medicare Act." Ibid.
Concluding that respondents' judicial action was not "collateral" to their
claims for benefits, we thus required respondents first to pursue their
administrative remedies. In so doing, we found it significant that respondents,
even if unsuccessful before the agency, "clearly have an adequate remedy in §
405(g) for challenging  all aspects of the Secretary's denial of
their claims for payment for the BCBR surgery." Id., at 617. 13
Unlike the situation in Heckler, the individual respondents in this
action do not seek a substantive declaration that they are entitled to SAW
status. Nor would the fact that they prevail on the merits of their purportedly
procedural objections have the effect of establishing their entitlement to SAW
status. Rather, if allowed to prevail in this action, respondents would only be
entitled to have their case files reopened and their applications reconsidered
in light of the newly prescribed INS procedures.
Moreover, unlike in Heckler, if not
allowed to pursue their claims in the District Court, respondents would not as a
practical matter be able to obtain meaningful judicial review of their
application denials or of their objections to INS procedures notwithstanding the
review provisions of § 210(e) of the amended INA.   It is presumable that
Congress legislates with knowledge of our basic rules of statutory construction,
and given our well-settled presumption favoring interpretations of statutes that
allow judicial review of administrative action, see Bowen v. Michigan Academy of
Family Physicians, 476 U.S. 667, 670, 90 L. Ed. 2d 623, 106 S. Ct. 2133 (1986),
coupled with the limited review provisions of § 210(e), it is most unlikely that
Congress intended to foreclose all forms of meaningful judicial review.
Several aspects of this statutory scheme would preclude
review of respondents' application denials if we were to hold that the District
Court lacked jurisdiction to hear this challenge. Initially, administrative or
judicial review of an agency decision is almost always confined to the record
made in the proceeding at the initial decisionmaking level, and one of the
central attacks on INS procedures in this litigation is based on the claim that
such procedures do not allow applicants to assemble adequate records. As the
District Court found, because of the lack of recordings or transcripts of LO
interviews and the inadequate opportunity for SAW applicants to call witnesses
or present other evidence on their behalf, the administrative appeals unit of
the INS, in reviewing the decisions of LO's and regional processing facilities,
and the courts of appeals, in reviewing SAW denials in the context of
deportation proceedings, have no complete or meaningful basis upon which to
review application determinations.
Additionally, because there is no provision for direct judicial review of the
denial of SAW status unless the alien is later apprehended and deportation
proceedings are initiated, most aliens denied SAW status can ensure themselves
review in courts of appeals only if they voluntarily surrender themselves for
deportation. Quite obviously, that price is tantamount to a complete
denial of judicial review for most undocumented aliens.
Finally, even in the context of a deportation
proceeding, it is unlikely that a court of appeals would be in a position to
provide meaningful review of the type of claims raised in this litigation. To
establish the unfairness of the INS practices, respondents in this
case adduced a substantial amount of evidence, most of which would have been
irrelevant in the processing of a particular individual application. Not only
would a court of appeals reviewing an individual SAW determination therefore
most likely not have an adequate record as to the pattern of INS' allegedly
unconstitutional practices, but it also would lack the factfinding and
record-developing capabilities of a federal district court. As the American Bar
Association as amicus points out, statutes that provide for only a
single level of judicial review in the courts of appeals "are traditionally
viewed as warranted only in circumstances where district court factfinding would
unnecessarily duplicate an adequate administrative record -- circumstances that
are not present in 'pattern and practice' cases where district court factfinding
is essential ." Brief for American
Bar Association as Amicus Curiae 7. It therefore seems plain to us, as it did to
the District Court and the Court of Appeals, that restricting judicial review to
the courts of appeals as a component of the review of an individual deportation
order is the practical equivalent of a total denial of judicial review of
generic constitutional and statutory claims.
Decision in this case is therefore supported by our unanimous holding 14 in
Bowen, supra. In that case we rejected the Government's contention that two
sections of the Social Security Act, 42 U. S. C. § 301  et seq. (1982 ed.),
barred judicial review of the validity of a regulation governing the payment of
Medicare benefits. We recognized that review of individual
determinations of the amount due on particular claims was foreclosed, but upheld
the collateral attack on the regulation itself, emphasizing the critical
difference between an individual "amount determination" and a challenge to the
procedures for making such determinations:
"The reticulated statutory scheme, which carefully details the forum
and limits of review of 'any determination . . . of . . . the amount
of benefits under part A,' 42 U. S. C. § 1395ff(b)(1)(C) (1982 ed.,
Supp. II), and of the 'amount of . . . payment' of benefits under Part
B, 42 U. S. C. § 1395u(b)(3)(C), simply does not speak to challenges
mounted against the method by which such amounts are to be determined
rather than the determinations themselves. As the Secretary has made
clear, 'the legality, constitutional or otherwise, of any provision of
the Act or regulations relevant to the Medicare Program' is not
considered in a 'fair hearing' held by a carrier to resolve a
grievance related to a determination of the amount of a Part B award.
As a result, an attack on the validity of a regulation is not the kind
of administrative action that we described in Erika as an 'amount
determination' which decides 'the amount of the Medicare payment to be
made on a particular claim' and with respect to which the Act
impliedly denies judicial review. 456 U.S. 201 at 208." 476 U.S. at
675-676 (emphasis in original).
Inherent in our analysis was the concern that absent such a construction of the
judicial review provisions of the Medicare statute, there would be "no review at
all of substantial statutory and constitutional challenges to the Secretary's
administration of Part B of the Medicare program." Id., at 680.
As we read the Reform Act and the findings of the District
Court,  therefore, this case is controlled by Bowen rather than by Heckler. The
strong presumption in favor of judicial review of administrative action is not
overcome either by the language or the purpose of the relevant
provisions of the Reform Act.
The judgment of the Court of Appeals is affirmed.
It is so ordered.
DISSENT BY: REHNQUIST

CHIEF JUSTICE REHNQUIST, with whom JUSTICE SCALIA joins, dissenting.
Congress has carefully limited the judicial review available under the
Immigration Reform and Control Act of 1986 (Reform Act) in language which "he
who runs may read." The Court, with considerable and obvious effort, finds a way
to avoid this limitation, because to apply the statute as written could bar
judicial review of respondents' constitutional claims. The statute as written
is, in my view, constitutional, and there is therefore no need to
rewrite it.
I
The relevant provisions of the Reform Act dealing with administrative and
judicial review are found in 8 U. S. C. § 1160(e):
"(1) Administrative and judicial review
"There shall be no administrative or judicial review of a
determination respecting an application for adjustment of status under
this section except in accordance with this subsection.
"(2) Administrative review
"(A) Single level of administrative appellate review
"The Attorney General shall establish an appellate authority to
provide for a single level of administrative appellate review of such
a determination
. . . .
"(3) Judicial review
"(A) Limitation to review of exclusion or deportation
"There shall be judicial review of such a denial only in the judicial
review of an order of exclusion or deportation under section 1105a of
this title."
The first of the quoted sentences states, as clearly as any language
can, that judicial review of a "determination respecting an application for
adjustment of status under this section" may not be had except in accordance
with the provisions of the subsection. The plain language of subsection (3)(A)
provides that judicial review of a denial may be had only in
connection with review of an order of exclusion or deportation. The Court
chooses to read this language as dealing only with "direct review of individual
denials of SAW status, rather than as referring to general collateral challenges
to unconstitutional practices and policies used by the agency in processing
applications." Ante, at 492. But the accepted view of judicial review of
administrative action generally -- even when there is no express preclusion
provision as there is in the present statute -- is that only "final actions" are
reviewable in court. The Administrative Procedure Act provides:
"Final agency action for which there is no other adequate remedy in a
court  subject to judicial review. A preliminary, procedural, or
intermediate agency action or ruling not directly reviewable is
subject to review on the review of the final agency action." 5 U. S.
C. § 704.
The Court's reasoning is thus a classic non sequitur. It reasons that because
Congress limited judicial review only of what were in effect final
administrative decisions, it must not have intended to preclude separate
challenges to procedures used by the agency before it issued any final decision.
But the type of judicial review of agency action which the Court finds that
Congress failed to preclude is a type not generally available even without
preclusion. In the light of this settled rule, the natural reading of
"determination respecting an application" in § 1160(e) encompasses both final
decisions and procedures used to reach those decisions. Each of respondents'
claims attacks the process used by Immigration and Naturalization
Service (INS) to make a determination respecting an application.
We have on several occasions rejected the argument advanced by respondents that
individual plaintiffs can bypass restrictions on judicial review by purporting
to attack general policies rather than individual results. For instance, in
United States v. Erika, Inc., 456 U.S. 201, 72 L. Ed. 2d 12, 102 S. Ct. 1650
(1982), we found that in the context of the "precisely drawn provisions" of the
Medicare statute, the provision of judicial review for awards made under Part A
of the statute, coupled with the omission of judicial review for awards under
Part B, "provides persuasive evidence that Congress deliberately intended to
foreclose further review of such claims." Id., at 208 (citations omitted).
Similarly, in Heckler v. Ringer, 466 U.S. 602, 80 L. Ed. 2d 622, 104 S. Ct. 2013
(1984), we addressed a challenge to a ruling issued by the Secretary of
Health and Human Services that precluded payment under Medicare for a particular
medical procedure. The Medicare Act permits judicial review of "any claim
arising under" the Act, 42 U. S. C. §§ 405(g), (h), only after a claimant seeks
payment and exhausts administrative remedies. The plaintiffs contended that
their lawsuits challenging the Secretary's refusal to reimburse the procedure at
issue were permissible without exhausting administrative remedies because they
challenged only the Secretary's "'procedure' for reaching her decision," not the
underlying decision on their particular claims.  466 U.S. at 614. We rejected
this distinction, finding that "it makes no sense to construe the
claims . . . as anything more than, at bottom, a claim that they should be paid
for their . . . surgery." Ibid. This holding was based on the recognition that a
contrary result would allow claimants "to bypass the exhaustion requirements of
the Medicare Act by simply bringing declaratory judgment actions in federal
court before they undergo the medical procedure in question." Id., at 621. We
expressly rejected the contention -- also urged by the respondents here -- that
"simply because a claim somehow can be construed as 'procedural,' it is
cognizable in federal district court by way of federal-question jurisdiction."
Id., at 614.
It is well settled that when Congress has established a particular review
mechanism, courts are not free to fashion alternatives to the specified scheme.
See United States v. Fausto, 484 U.S. 439, 448-449, 98 L. Ed. 2d 830, 108 S. Ct.
668 (1988); Whitney National Bank v. Bank of New Orleans & Trust Co., 379 U.S.
411, 419-422, 13 L. Ed. 2d 386, 85 S. Ct. 551 (1965). In creating the Reform Act
and the SAW program, Congress balanced the goals of the unprecedented amnesty
programs with the need "to insure reasonably prompt determinations" in light of
the incentives and opportunity for ineligible applicants to delay the
disposition of their cases and derail the program. The Court's ponderously
reasoned gloss on the statute's plain language sanctions an unwarranted
intrusion into a carefully drafted congressional program, a program which placed
great emphasis on a minimal amount of paperwork and procedure in an effort to
speed the process of adjusting the status of those aliens who demonstrated their
entitlement to adjustment. "If the balance is to be struck anew, the decision
must come from Congress and not from this Court." Ringer, supra, at 627.
II
The Court bases its conclusion that district courts have jurisdiction to
entertain respondents' pattern and practice allegations in part out of respect
for the "strong presumption" that Congress intends judicial review of
administrative action. Ante, at 498. This presumption, however, comes into play
only where there is a genuine ambiguity as to whether Congress intended to
preclude judicial review of administrative action. In this case two things are
evident: First, in drafting the Reform Act, Congress did not preclude all
judicial review of administrative action; as detailed earlier, Congress provided
for judicial review of INS action in the courts of appeals in deportation
proceedings, and in the district courts in orders of exclusion. Second, by
enacting such a scheme, Congress intended to foreclose all other
avenues of relief. Therefore, since the statute is not ambiguous, the
presumption has no force here.
The Court indicates that this presumption of judicial review is particularly
applicable in cases raising constitutional challenges to agency action. Ante, at
496-499. I believe that Congress intended to preclude judicial review of such
claims in this instance, and that in this context it is permissible
for it to do so.
In the Reform Act, Congress enacted a one-time amnesty program to
process claims of illegal aliens allowing them to obtain status as lawful
residents. Congress intended aliens to come forward during the limited, 12-month
eligibility period because "this is the first call and the last call, a one-shot
deal." 132 Cong. Rec. 33217 (1986) (remarks of Sen. Simpson). If an alien failed
to file a legalization application within the 12-month period, the opportunity
was lost forever. To further expedite this unique and unprecedented amnesty
program and to minimize the burden on the federal courts, Congress provided for
limited judicial review.
Given the structure of the Act, and the status of these alien respondents, it is
extremely doubtful that the operation of the administrative process in their
cases would give rise to any colorable constitutional claims. "'An alien who
seeks political rights as a member of this Nation can rightfully obtain them
only upon terms and conditions specified by Congress. Courts are without
authority to sanction changes or modifications; their duty is rigidly to enforce
the legislative will in respect of a matter so vital to the public welfare.'"
INS v. Pangilinan, 486 U.S. 875, 884, 100 L. Ed. 2d 882, 108 S. Ct. 2210 (1988)
(quoting United States v. Ginsberg, 243 U.S. 472, 474, 61 L. Ed. 853, 37 S. Ct.
422 (1917)).
Respondents are undoubtedly entitled to the benefit of those procedures which
Congress has accorded them in the Reform Act. But there is no reason to believe
that administrative appeals as provided in the Act -- which simply have not been
resorted to by these respondents before suing in the District Court --
would not have assured them compliance with statutory procedures. The Court
never mentions what colorable constitutional claims these aliens, illegally
present in the United States, could have had that demand judicial review. The
most that can be said for respondents' case in this regard is that it is
conceivable, though not likely, that the administrative processing of their
claims could be handled in such a way as to deny them some constitutional right,
and that the remedy of requesting deportation in order to obtain judicial review
is a burdensome one. We have never held, however, that Congress may not, by
explicit language, preclude judicial review of constitutional claims, and here,
where that body was obviously interested in expeditiously processing an
avalanche of claims from noncitizens upon whom it was conferring a substantial
benefit, I think it may do so.
