OPINION
JUSTICE O'CONNOR delivered the opinion of the
Court.
In this case we decide whether Rule 11 of
the Federal Rules of Civil Procedure imposes an objective standard of reasonable
inquiry on represented parties who sign pleadings, motions, or other papers.
I
Business Guides, Inc., a subsidiary of a leading publisher of trade magazines
and journals, publishes directories for 18 specialized areas of retail trade. In
an effort to protect its directories against copying, Business Guides
deliberately plants in them bits of false information, known as "seeds." Some
seeds consist of minor alterations in otherwise accurate listings -- transposed
numbers in an address or zip code, or a misspelled name -- while others take the
form of wholly fictitious listings describing nonexistent businesses. Business
Guides considers the presence of seeds in a competitor's directory to be
evidence of copyright infringement. +
On October 31, 1986, Business Guides, through its counsel Finley, Kumble,
Wagner, Heine, Unterberg, Manley, Myerson, and Casey (Finley, Kumble), filed an
action in the United States District Court for the Northern District of  
California against Chromatic Communications Enterprises, Inc., claiming
copyright infringement, conversion, and unfair competition, and seeking a
temporary restraining order (TRO). The TRO application was signed by a Finley,
Kumble attorney and by Business Guides' president on behalf of the corporation.
Business Guides submitted under seal affidavits in support of the application.
These affidavits charged Chromatic with copying, as evidenced by the presence of
10 seeds in Chromatic's directory. One affidavit, that of sales representative
Victoria Burdick, identified the 10 listings in Business Guides' directory that
had allegedly been copied, but did not pinpoint the seed in each listing.
A hearing on the TRO was scheduled for November 7, 1986. Three days before the
hearing, the District Judge's law clerk phoned Finley, Kumble and asked it to
specify what was incorrect about each listing. Finley, Kumble relayed this
request to Business Guides' Director of Research, Michael Lambe. This was
apparently the first time the law firm asked its client for details about the 10
seeds. Based on Lambe's response, Finley, Kumble informed the court that
Business Guides was retracting its claims of copying as to three of the seeds.
The District Court considered this suspicious and so conducted its own
investigation into the allegations of copying. The District Judge's law clerk
spent one hour telephoning the businesses named in the "seeded" listings, only
to discover that 9 of the 10 listings contained no incorrect information.
Unaware of the District Court's discovery,  Finley, Kumble prepared a
supplemental affidavit of Michael Lambe, identifying seven listings in
Chromatic's directory and explaining precisely what part of each
listing supposedly contained seeded information. Lambe signed this affidavit on
the morning of the November 7 hearing. Before doing so, however, Lambe crossed
out reference to a fourth seed that he had determined did not in fact reflect
any incorrect information but which Finley, Kumble had not retracted.
At the hearing, the District Court, based on its discovery
that 9 of the original 10 listings contained no incorrect information, denied
the application for a TRO. More importantly, the judge stayed further
proceedings and referred the matter to a Magistrate to determine whether Rule 11
sanctions should be imposed. The Magistrate conducted two evidentiary hearings,
at which he instructed Business Guides and Finley, Kumble to explain why 9 of
its 10 charges of copying were meritless. Both claimed it was a coincidence.
Doubting the good faith of these representations, the Magistrate recommended
that both the law firm and the client be sanctioned. See App. to Pet. for Cert.
64a-75a.
Later,  claiming to have uncovered the true source of the errors, the parties
asked for and received a third hearing. Business Guides explained that in
compiling its "master seed list," it had departed from its normal methodology.
Usually, letters and numbers were transposed deliberately and recorded on the
seed list before the directory was published. In this case, the company had
compiled the master seed list after publication by looking for unintended
typographical errors in the directory. To locate such errors, sales
representative Victoria Burdick had compared the final version of the directory
against initial questionnaires that had been submitted to Business Guides by
businesses that wanted to be listed. When Burdick discovered a disparity between
a questionnaire and the final directory, she included it on the seed list. She
assumed, without investigating, that the information on the questionnaires was
accurate. As it turned out, the questionnaires themselves sometimes contained
transposed numbers or misspelled names, which other employees had corrected when
proofreading the directory prior to publication. Consequently, many of the seeds
appearing on the master list contained no false information. The presence of
identical listings in a competitor's directory thus would not indicate copying,
but rather accurate research.
The Magistrate accepted this explanation, but determined that sanctions
were nonetheless appropriate. Id., at 48a. First, he found that Business Guides,
in filing the initial TRO application, had "failed to conduct a proper inquiry,
resulting in the presentation of unreasonable and false information to the
court." Id., at 53a. The Magistrate did not recommend that Finley, Kumble be
sanctioned for the initial application, however, as the firm had been led to
believe that there was an urgent need to act quickly and thus relied on the
information provided by its sophisticated corporate client. Id., at 54a-55a.
Next, the Magistrate recommended that both Business Guides and Finley, Kumble be
sanctioned for having failed to inquire into the accuracy of the remaining seeds
following Michael Lambe's discovery, based on only a few minutes of
investigation, that 3 of the 10 were invalid. Id., at 55a-56a. Finally, the
Magistrate recommended that both the law firm and its client be
sanctioned for their conduct at the first two evidentiary hearings. Instead of
investigating the cause of the errors in the seed list, Business Guides and
Finley, Kumble had relied on a "coincidence" defense. Id., at 51a. The
Magistrate determined that "no reasonable person would have been satisfied with
these explanations. . . . Finley, Kumble and Business Guides did not need this
court to point out the blatant errors in the logic of their representations."
Id., at 59a.
The District Court agreed with the Magistrate, stating: "The standard of conduct
under Rule 11 is one of objective reasonableness. Applying this standard to the
circumstances of this case, it is clear that both Business Guides and Finley
Kumble have violated the Rule." 119 F.R.D. 685, 688-689 (ND Cal. 1988). The
court reiterated the Magistrate's conclusion that: (1) Business Guides violated
Rule 11 by filing the initial TRO application; (2) Business Guides and Finley,
Kumble violated the Rule by failing to conduct a reasonable inquiry once they
were put on notice of several inaccuracies; and (3) Business Guides
and Finley, Kumble violated the Rule in their arguments to the
Magistrate at the first two evidentiary hearings.  Id., at 689. Rather than
impose sanctions at that time, the District Court unsealed the proceedings and
invited Chromatic to file a motion requesting particular sanctions.  Id., at 690
.
Chromatic brought a motion for sanctions against both Business Guides and
Finley, Kumble. It later moved to withdraw the motion with respect to Finley,
Kumble, after learning that the law firm had recently dissolved and that all
proceedings against the firm were stayed under § 362 of the Bankruptcy Code. 121
F.R.D. 402, 403 (ND Cal. 1988). The District Court accepted this withdrawal and
issued its ruling without prejudice to Chromatic's right to pursue sanctions
against Finley, Kumble at a later date. Ibid.
Before ruling on the motion for sanctions against Business Guides, the District
Court made additional factfindings. It observed that of the 10 seeds that had
originally been alleged to be present in Chromatic's directory, only one
actually contained false information. Ibid. This seed was a wholly fictitious
listing for a company that did not exist. Chromatic denied that it had copied
this listing from Business Guides' directory; it offered an alternative
explanation -- that Business Guides had "planted" the fake listing in
Chromatic's directory. A Business Guides employee had requested a copy of
Chromatic's directory, filled out a questionnaire providing information about
the nonexistent company, and mailed this questionnaire to Chromatic intending
that the company publish the false listing in its directory. Id., at 403-404.
Business Guides did not deny the truth of these charges, and the District Court
found that petitioner's silence amounted to a "tacit admission." Id., at 404. In
light of this finding, the court had no choice but to conclude: "Business
Guides' entire lawsuit has no basis in fact." "There was, and is, no evidence of
copyright infringement." Ibid.
The court then ruled on Chromatic's motion for sanctions. Citing "the rather
remarkable circumstances of this case, and the serious consequences
of Business Guides' improper conduct," it dismissed the action with
prejudice.  Id., at 406. Additionally, it imposed $ 13,865.66 in sanctions
against Business Guides, the amount of Chromatic's legal expenses and
out-of-pocket costs.  Id., at 405.
The Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit affirmed the District Court's
holdings that Business Guides was subject to an objective standard of reasonable
inquiry into the factual basis of papers submitted to the court, and that
Business Guides had failed to conduct a reasonable inquiry before (1) signing
the initial TRO application, and (2) submitting Michael Lambe's supplemental
declaration. 892 F.2d 802, 811 (1989). The court relied on the plain language of
Rule 11, which "draws no distinction between the state of mind of attorneys and
parties. . . . On the contrary, the rule, by requiring any 'signer' of a paper
(attorney or party) to conduct a 'reasonable inquiry,' would appear to prescribe
similar standards for attorneys and represented parties." Id., at 809 (emphasis
in original). The Court of Appeals reversed, however, the District Court's
holding that oral representations and testimony before the Magistrate violated
Rule 11.  Id., at 813. Because it reversed one of the three bases on which
Business Guides had been sanctioned, the Court of Appeals vacated the order of
sanctions and remanded to the District Court for reconsideration.  Id., at
813-814. We granted certiorari to determine whether the Court of Appeals
properly held Business Guides to an objective standard of reasonable inquiry.
497 U.S. 1002 (1990). Subsequently, the District Court issued an order
reaffirming the dismissal and monetary sanctions. App. to Pet. for Cert. 1a-2a.
II
A
"We give the Federal Rules of Civil
Procedure their plain meaning." Pavelic & LeFlore v. Marvel Entertainment Group,
493 U.S. 120, 123, 107 L. Ed. 2d 438, 110 S. Ct. 456 (1989). As with a statute,
our inquiry is complete if we find the text of the Rule to be
clear and unambiguous. Rule 11  provides in relevant part: "The signature
of an attorney or party constitutes a certificate by the signer that . . . to
the best of the signer's knowledge, information, and belief formed after
reasonable inquiry it is well grounded in fact . . . . If a pleading, motion, or
other paper is signed in violation of this rule, the court . . . shall impose
upon the person who signed it . . . an appropriate sanction" (emphasis added).
Thus viewed,   the meaning of the Rule seems plain: A party who signs a
pleading or other paper without first conducting a reasonable inquiry shall be
sanctioned. Business Guides argues, however, that the Rule's meaning is not so
clear when one reads the full text. Accordingly, we reproduce below the full
text of Rule 11, adding bracketed numbers before each sentence to clarify the
discussion that follows:
" Every pleading, motion, and other paper of a party
represented by an attorney shall be signed by at least one attorney of
record in the attorney's individual name, whose address shall be
stated.  A party who is not represented by an attorney shall sign
the party's pleading, motion, or other paper and state the
party's address.  Except when otherwise specifically provided by
rule or statute, pleadings need not be verified or accompanied by
affidavit.  The rule in equity that the averments of an answer
under oath must be overcome by the testimony of two witnesses or of
one witness sustained by corroborating circumstances is abolished. 
The signature of an attorney or party constitutes a certificate by the
signer that the signer has read the pleading, motion, or other paper;
that to the best of the signer's knowledge, information, and belief
formed after reasonable inquiry it is well grounded in fact and is
warranted by existing law or a good faith argument for the extension,
modification, or reversal of existing law, and that it is not
interposed for any improper purpose, such as to harass or to
cause unnecessary delay or needless increase in the cost of
litigation.  If a pleading, motion, or other paper is not signed,
it shall be stricken unless it is signed promptly after the omission
is called to the attention of the pleader or movant.  If a
pleading, motion, or other paper is signed in violation of this rule,
the court, upon motion or upon its own initiative, shall impose upon
the person who signed it, a represented party, or both, an appropriate
sanction, which may include an order to pay to the other party or
parties the amount of the reasonable expenses incurred because of the
filing of the pleading, motion, or other paper, including a reasonable
attorney's fee."
We find nothing in the full text of the Rule
that detracts from the plain meaning of the relevant portion quoted initially.
Rule 11   is "aimed at curbing abuses of the judicial system." Cooter &
Gell v. Hartmarx Corp., 496 U.S. 384, 397, 110 L. Ed. 2d 359, 110 S. Ct. 2447
(1990). To this end, it sets up a means by which litigants certify to the court,
by signature, that any papers filed are well founded. The first three sentences
of the Rule explain in what instances a signature is mandatory. Sentence 
states that where a party is represented by counsel, the party's attorney must
sign any motion, pleading, or other paper filed with the court. Sentence 
provides that where a party is proceeding pro se, the unrepresented party must
sign the documents. Sentence  acknowledges that in some situations
represented parties are required by rule or statute to verify pleadings or sign
affidavits. Sentence  explains that certification by signature replaces some
older forms of oath and attestation.
The heart of Rule 11 is sentence , which explains
in detail the message conveyed by the signing of a document.   A signature
certifies to the court that the signer has read the document, has conducted a
reasonable inquiry into the facts and the law and is satisfied that the document
is well grounded in both, and is acting without any improper motive.  
See 5A C. Wright & A. Miller, Federal Practice and Procedure § 1335, pp. 57-58
(2d ed. 1990) (hereinafter Wright & Miller). This sentence, by its terms,
governs any signature of "an attorney or party," thereby making it applicable
not only to signatures required by sentences , , and , but also to
signatures that are not required but nevertheless present. "The certification
requirement now mandates that all signers consider their behavior in
terms of the duty they owe to the court system to conserve its resources and
avoid unnecessary proceedings." Id., § 1331, at 21 (emphasis added).   The
final two sentences describe the means by which the Rule is enforced. Sentence
dictates that where a required signature is missing and the omission is not
corrected promptly, the document will be stricken. Sentence  requires that
sanctions be imposed where a signature is present but fails to satisfy the
certification standard.
Business Guides proposes an alternative interpretation of the
text. As mentioned, sentence  indicates that a party who is represented by
counsel is not itself required to sign most papers or pleadings; generally, only
the signature of the attorney is mandated. Business Guides concludes from this
that a represented party may, if it wishes, sign a document, but that this
signature need not comply with the certification standard described in sentence
. Because a client's signature is not normally required by Rule 11, the
occasional presence of one cannot run afoul of the Rule. In short, Business
Guides maintains that a represented party is free to sign frivolous or vexatious
documents with impunity because its signature on a document carries with it no
additional risk of sanctions.
This reading is inconsistent with both the
language and the purpose of Rule 11. As an initial matter, it is not relevant
that represented parties rarely sign filed documents, because Business Guides
did sign in this case. Indeed, it was required to do so.  Rule 65(b) of the
Federal Rules of Civil Procedure provides specifically that a TRO application
must be accompanied by an affidavit or verified complaint that sets
forth the facts. A TRO application is thus one of the situations provided for in
sentence , where a party's verification or signed affidavit is mandatory.
Even if Business Guides had not been required to sign the TRO application but
did so voluntarily, the language of Rule 11 would still require that the
signature satisfy the certification requirement. Sentence  may not require a
represented party to sign papers and pleadings, but neither does it prohibit a
represented party from attesting to the merit of documents filed on its behalf.
"When a party is represented by counsel, it is unnecessary, but not
improper, for the represented party to sign as well." Wright & Miller § 1333, at
47. Accordingly, sentence  declares that the signature of a party conveys
precisely the same message as that of an attorney: "The signature of an attorney
or party constitutes a certificate by the signer that the signer has read the
pleading, motion, or other paper; that . . . it is well grounded in fact and is
warranted by existing law." (Emphasis added.) It seems plain that the voluntary
signature of a represented party, no less than the mandatory signature of an
attorney, is capable of violating the Rule.
The only way that Business Guides can avoid having to satisfy
the certification standard is if we read "attorney or party" as used in sentence
to mean "attorney or unrepresented party." Only then would the signature of
a represented party fall outside the scope of the Rule. We decline to adopt this
unnatural reading, as there is no indication that this is what the Advisory
Committee intended. Just the opposite is true. Prior to its
amendment in 1983, sentence  referred solely to "the signature of an
attorney" on a "pleading." The 1983 amendments deliberately expanded the
coverage of the Rule. Wright & Miller § 1331, at 21. Sentence  was amended to
refer broadly to "the signature of an attorney or party" on a "pleading, motion,
or other paper" (emphasis added). Represented parties, despite having counsel,
routinely sign certain papers -- declarations, affidavits, and the like
-- during the course of litigation. Business Guides, for example, submitted to
the District Court no fewer than five signed papers in support of its TRO
application. The amended language of sentence  leaves little room for doubt
that the signatures of the "party" on these "other papers" must satisfy the
certification requirement.
Had the Advisory Committee intended to limit the application of the
certification standard to parties proceeding pro se, it would surely have said
so. Elsewhere in the text, the Committee demonstrated its ability to distinguish
between represented and unrepresented parties. Sentence  refers specifically
to "a party represented by an attorney," while sentence  applies to "
party who is not represented by an attorney" (emphasis added). Sentence ,
however, draws no such distinction; it lumps together the two types of parties.
By using the more expansive term "party," the Committee called for more
expansive coverage. The natural reading of this language is that any party who
signs a document, whether or not the party was required to do so, is subject to
the certification standard of Rule 11.
Leading scholars are in accord. Professors James Wm. Moore and Jo Desha Lucas,
authors of Moore's Federal Practice, state: "The current Rule places an
affirmative duty on the attorney or party to investigate the facts and the law
prior to the subscription and submission of any pleading, motion or paper . . .
. The rule applies to attorneys, parties represented by attorneys, and parties
who appear pro se." 2A J. Moore & J. Lucas, Moore's Federal Practice P11.02,
pp. 11-15 to 11-17 (2d ed. 1990) (footnotes omitted). Professors Charles Alan
Wright and Arthur R. Miller describe in their treatise on Federal Practice and
Procedure "seven major alterations" of Rule 11 practice occasioned by the 1983
amendments, one of which is that "the range of people covered by the
certification requirement . . . has been expanded. Now, all signers, not just
attorneys, are on notice that their signature constitutes a
certification as to the contents of the document." Wright & Miller § 1331, at 21
(emphasis added). "The expansion of the scope of the certification requirement
to include non-attorney signers was accomplished by changing 'signature of an
attorney' in the fifth sentence of the rule to 'signature of an attorney or
party.'" Id., at 21-22, n.54.
In addition to being the most natural reading, it is an eminently sensible one.
The essence of Rule 11 is that signing is no longer a meaningless act; it
denotes merit. A signature sends a message to the district court that this
document is to be taken seriously. This case is illustrative. Business Guides
sought a TRO on the strength of an initial application accompanied by five
signed statements to the effect that Chromatic was pirating its
directory. Because these documents were filed under seal, the District Court had
to determine the credibility of the allegations without the benefit of hearing
the other side's view. The court might plausibly have attached some incremental
significance to the fact that Business Guides itself risked being sanctioned if
the factual allegations contained in these signed statements proved to be
baseless. Business Guides asks that we construe Rule 11 in a way that would
render the signatures on these statements risk free. Because this construction
is at odds with the Rule's general admonition that signing denotes merit, we are
loath to do so absent a compelling indication in the text that the Advisory
Committee intended such a result. Because we find no such indication,  
compelling or otherwise, we conclude that the word "party" in sentence  means
precisely what it appears to mean.
The dissent contends that this conclusion is inconsistent with our decision last
Term in Pavelic & LeFlore. See post, at 556, 562-564. Just the opposite is true;
our decision today follows naturally from Pavelic & LeFlore. We held in Pavelic
& LeFlore that Rule 11   contemplates sanctions against the particular
individual who signs his or her name, not against the law firm of which
that individual is a member, because "the purpose of Rule 11 as a whole is to
bring home to the individual signer his personal, nondelegable responsibility .
. . to validate the truth and legal reasonableness of the papers filed." 493
U.S. at 126. This is entirely consistent with our decision here that a
represented party who signs his or her name bears a personal, nondelegable
responsibility to certify the truth and reasonableness of the document. The
dissent agrees that a party proceeding without the benefit of legal assistance
bears this responsibility, but insists that a party represented by counsel --
even one whose signature is mandatory -- is absolved from any duty to vouch for
the truth of papers he or she signs because he or she has delegated this
responsibility to counsel. See post, at 556.
The dissent's dichotomy between represented and unrepresented parties is
particularly troubling given that it has no basis in the text of the Rule.
Sentence  refers to "the signature of an attorney or party" (emphasis added).
We emphasized in Pavelic & LeFlore that this Court will not reject the natural
reading of a rule or statute in favor of a less plausible reading, even one that
seems to us to achieve a better result.  493 U.S. at 126-127. Yet JUSTICE
KENNEDY proposes that we construe "party" to mean "unrepresented party" --
notwithstanding the Advisory Committee's ability, demonstrated only three
sentences earlier, to distinguish between represented and unrepresented parties
-- because he thinks it unwise to punish clients. See post, at 556-558.
The dissent also criticizes
us for treating the signatures of Business Guides' president and director of
research as signatures of the company. JUSTICE KENNEDY suggests that this is "in
square conflict" with our holding in Pavelic & LeFlore that "'the person who
signed'" was the individual attorney, not the law firm. Post, at 563.
The dissent overlooks an important distinction. In Pavelic & LeFlore, we relied
in part on Rule 11's unambiguous statement that   papers must be signed by
an attorney "in the attorney's individual name." 493 U.S. at 125
(emphasis omitted). A corporate entity, of course, cannot itself sign anything;
it can act only through its agents. It would be anomalous to determine that an
individual who is represented by counsel falls within the scope of Rule 11, but
that a corporate client does not because it cannot itself sign a document. In
any event, the question need not be resolved definitely here; Business Guides
concedes that it did not raise this argument in the courts below. Brief for
Petitioner 35, n.38.
B
Having concluded that Rule 11 applies to represented parties,
we must next determine whether the certification standard for a party is the
same as that for an attorney.   The plain language of the Rule again
provides the answer. It speaks of attorneys and parties in a single breath and
applies to them a single standard: "The signature of an attorney or party
constitutes a certificate by the signer that the signer has read the pleading,
motion, or other paper; that to the best of the signer's knowledge, information,
and belief formed after reasonable inquiry it is well grounded in fact and is
warranted by existing law or a good faith argument for the extension,
modification, or reversal of existing law, and that it is not interposed for any
improper purpose, such as to harass or to cause unnecessary delay or
needless increase in the cost of litigation." As the Court of Appeals correctly
observed: "The rule draws no distinction between the state of mind of attorneys
and parties." 892 F.2d at 809.Rather, it states unambiguously that any signer
must conduct a "reasonable inquiry" or face sanctions.
Business Guides devotes much of its brief to arguing that
subjective bad faith, not failure to conduct a reasonable inquiry, should be the
touchstone for sanctions on represented parties. It points with approval to Rule
56(g) of the Federal Rules of Civil Procedure, which appears to subject
affidavits in the summary judgment context to a subjective good faith standard.
This argument is misdirected, as this Court is not acting on a clean
slate; our task is not to decide what the rule should be, but rather to
determine what it is.   Once we conclude that Rule 11 speaks to the matter
at issue, our inquiry is complete.  See Pavelic & LeFlore, supra, at 126. As
originally drafted, Rule 11 set out a subjective standard, but the Advisory
Committee determined that this standard was not working. See Cooter & Gell, 496
U.S. at 392-393. Accordingly, the Committee deleted the subjective standard at
the same time that it expanded the rule to cover parties. See Wright & Miller §
1335, at 58-60. That the Advisory Committee did not also amend Rule 56(g) hardly
matters. Rather than fashion a standard specific to summary judgment
proceedings, the Committee chose to amend Rule 11, thereby establishing a more
stringent standard for all affidavits and other papers. Even if we
were convinced that a subjective bad faith standard would more effectively
promote the goals of Rule 11, we would not be free to implement this standard
outside of the rulemaking process. "Our task is to apply the text, not to
improve upon it." Pavelic & LeFlore, supra, at 126.
Nor are we convinced that, as a policy matter, represented
parties should not be held to a reasonable inquiry standard.  Quite often it is
the client, not the attorney, who is better positioned to investigate the facts
supporting a paper or pleading. This case is a perfect example. Business Guides
brought the matter to Finley, Kumble and requested the law firm to obtain an
immediate injunction against Chromatic. Given the apparent urgency, the District
Court reasoned that the firm could not be blamed for relying on the factual
representations of its experienced corporate client. Rather, the blame -- and
the sanctions -- properly fell on Business Guides:
"This case illustrates well the dangers of a party's failure to act
reasonably in commencing litigation. Here Business Guides, a
sophisticated corporate entity, hired a large, powerful and nationally
known law firm to file suit against a competitor for copyright
infringement. This competitor happened to be a one-man
company operating out of a garage in California. Two years later,
after extensive time and effort on the part of the court, the various
counsel for Business Guides, as well as various counsel for Business
Guides' counsel, it turns out there was no evidence of infringement.
The entire lawsuit was a mistake. In the meantime,  the objects of
this lawsuit have spent thousands of dollars of attorney's fees and
have suffered potentially irreparable damage to their business. This
entire scenario could have been avoided if, prior to filing the suit,
Business Guides simply had spent an hour, like the court's law clerk
did, and checked the accuracy of the purported seeds." 121 F.R.D. at
405.
Where a represented party appends its signature to a document that a
reasonable inquiry into the facts would have revealed to be without merit, we
see no reason why a district court should be powerless to sanction the party in
addition to, or instead of, the attorney. See Wright & Miller § 1336, at
104. A contrary rule would establish a safe harbor such that sanctions
could not be imposed where an attorney, pressed to act quickly, reasonably
relies on a client's careless misrepresentations.
Of course, represented parties may often be
less able to investigate the legal basis for a paper or pleading. But this is
not invariably the case. Many corporate clients, for example, have in-house
counsel who are fully competent to make the necessary inquiry. Other party
litigants may have a great deal of practical litigation experience. Indeed,
Business Guides itself is no stranger to the courts; it is a sophisticated
corporate entity that has been prosecuting copyright infringement actions since
1948. App. 105-106. The most that can be said is that the legal inquiry that can
reasonably be expected from a party may vary from case to case. Put another way,
"what is objectively reasonable for a client may differ from
what is objectively reasonable for an attorney." 892 F.2d at 810. The
Advisory Committee was well aware of this when it amended Rule 11. Thus,  
the certification standard, while "more stringent than the original good-faith
formula," is not inflexible. "The standard is one of reasonableness  under the
circumstances" (emphasis added). Advisory Committee's Note to Fed. Rule Civ.
Proc. 11, 28 U. S. C. App., p. 576. This formulation "has been embraced in all
thirteen circuits." Wright & Miller § 1335, at 61-62. This is a far more
sensible rule than that proposed by Business Guides, which would hold parties
proceeding pro se to an objective standard, while applying a lesser subjective
standard to represented parties. As noted by the Court of Appeals: "We fail to
see why represented parties should be given the benefit of a subjective bad
faith standard whereas pro se litigants, who do not enjoy the aid of counsel,
are held to a higher objective standard." 892 F.2d at 811.
Giving the text its plain meaning,
we hold that it imposes on any party who signs a pleading, motion, or other
paper -- whether the party's signature is required by the Rule or is provided
voluntarily -- an affirmative duty to conduct a reasonable inquiry into the
facts and the law before filing, and that the applicable standard is one of
reasonableness under the circumstances.
III
One issue remains: Business Guides asserts that imposing
sanctions against a represented party that did not act in bad faith violates the
Rules Enabling Act, 28 U. S. C. § 2072. The Act authorizes the Court "to
prescribe general rules of practice and procedure," but provides that such rules
"shall not abridge, enlarge, or modify any substantive right." Business Guides
argues that Rule 11, to the extent that it imposes on represented parties an
objective standard of reasonableness, exceeds the limits of the Court's power in
two ways: (1) It authorizes fee shifting in a manner not approved by Congress;
and (2) it effectively creates a federal tort of malicious prosecution,
thereby encroaching upon various state law causes of action.
We begin by noting that any Rules Enabling Act challenge to
Rule 11 has a large hurdle to get over.   The Federal Rules of Civil
Procedure are not enacted by Congress, but "Congress participates in the
rulemaking process." Wright & Miller § 1332, at 40, and n.74, citing Amendments
to the Rules of Civil Procedure for the United States District Courts, H. R.
Doc. No. 54, 98th Cong., 1st Sess., 3-25 (1983). Additionally, the Rules do not
go into effect until Congress has had at least seven months to look them over.
See 28 U. S. C. § 2074. A challenge to Rule 11 can therefore succeed "only if
the Advisory Committee, this Court, and Congress erred in their prima facie
judgment that the Rule . . . transgresses neither the terms of the Enabling Act
nor constitutional restrictions." Hanna v. Plumer, 380 U.S. 460, 471, 14 L. Ed.
2d 8, 85 S. Ct. 1136 (1965).
This Court's decision in Burlington Northern R.
Co. v. Woods, 480 U.S. 1, 94 L. Ed. 2d 1, 107 S. Ct. 967 (1987), presents
another hurdle. There, the Court considered the Act's proscription
against interference with substantive rights and held, in a unanimous decision,
that "Rules which incidentally affect litigants' substantive rights do not
violate this provision if reasonably necessary to maintain the integrity of that
system of rules." Id., at 5 (emphasis added). There is little doubt that Rule 11
is reasonably necessary to maintain the integrity of the system of federal
practice and procedure, and that any effect on substantive rights is incidental.
See id., at 8. We held as much only last Term in Cooter & Gell: "It is now clear
that   the central purpose of Rule 11 is to deter baseless filings in
district court and thus, consistent with the Rule Enabling Act's grant of
authority, streamline the administration and procedure of the federal courts."
496 U.S. at 393.
Petitioner's challenges do not clear these substantial hurdles. In arguing that
the monetary sanctions in this case constitute impermissible fee shifting,
Business Guides relies on the Court's statement in Alyeska Pipeline
Service Co. v. Wilderness Society, 421 U.S. 240, 247, 44 L. Ed. 2d 141, 95 S.
Ct. 1612 (1975), that, in the absence of legislative guidance, courts do not
have the power "to reallocate the burdens of litigation" by awarding costs to
the losing party in a civil rights suit; they have only the power to sanction a
party for bad faith. See id., at 258-259. The initial difficulty with this
argument is that Alyeska dealt with the courts' inherent powers, not the Rules
Enabling Act. Rule 11 sanctions do not constitute the kind of fee shifting at
issue in Alyeska. Rule 11   sanctions are not tied to the outcome of
litigation; the relevant inquiry is whether a specific filing was, if not
successful, at least well founded. Nor do sanctions shift the entire cost of
litigation; they shift only the cost of a discrete event. Finally, the Rule
calls only for "an appropriate sanction" -- attorney's fees are not mandated. As
we explained in Cooter & Gell: "Rule 11 is not a fee-shifting statute . . . . 'A
movant under Rule 11 has no entitlement to fees or any other sanction.'" 496
U.S. at 409, quoting American Judicature Society, Rule 11 in Transition, The
Report of the Third Circuit Task Force on Federal Rule of Civil Procedure 11, p.
49 (Burbank, reporter 1989).
Also without merit is Business Guides' argument that Rule 11 creates a federal
common law of malicious prosecution. We rejected a similar claim in Cooter &
Gell. But see 496 U.S. at 411-412 (STEVENS, J., dissenting).   The main
objective of the Rule is not to reward parties who are victimized by litigation;
it is to deter baseless filings and curb abuses. See id., at 393, 409. Imposing
monetary sanctions on parties that violate the Rule may confer a benefit on
other litigants, but the Rules Enabling Act is not violated by such incidental
effects on substantive rights. See Woods, supra, at 5, 8. Additionally, we are
confident that district courts will resist the temptation to use sanctions as
substitutes for tort damages. This case is a good example. Chromatic asked that
the sanctions award include consequential damages, but the District Court
refused. "While sympathetic to  plight," the
court was "not persuaded that such compensation is within the purview of Rule 11
." 121 F.R.D. at 406.   In the event that a district court misapplies the
Rule in a particular case, the error can be corrected on appeal. "But
misapplications do not themselves provide a basis for concluding that Rule 11
was the result of . . . distinct errors in prima facie judgment during the
development and promulgation of the rule." Wright & Miller § 1332, at 40.
In sum, we hold today that Rule 11  
imposes an objective standard of reasonable inquiry on represented parties who
sign papers or pleadings. We have no occasion to determine whether or
under what circumstances a nonsigning party may be sanctioned. The District
Court found that Business Guides failed to conduct a reasonable inquiry before
signing the initial TRO application and before submitting the signed declaration
of its Director of Research, Michael Lambe. Consequently, the District Court
imposed $ 13,865.66 in sanctions against Business Guides and dismissed the
action with prejudice. The Court of Appeals affirmed each of these rulings. For
the reasons stated herein, the judgment of the Court of Appeals is
Affirmed.
DISSENT BY: KENNEDY

JUSTICE KENNEDY, with whom JUSTICE MARSHALL and JUSTICE STEVENS join, and with
whom JUSTICE SCALIA joins as to Parts I, III, and IV, dissenting.
The purpose of Federal Rule of Civil Procedure 11 is to control the practice of
attorneys, or those who act as their own attorneys, in the conduct of litigation
in the federal courts. Extending judicial power far beyond that boundary, the
Court, relying only on its rulemaking authority, now holds that citizens who
seek the aid of the federal courts may risk money damages or other sanctions if
they do not satisfy some objective standard of care in the preparation or
litigation of a case. This holding is an extraordinary departure from settled
principles governing liability for misuse of the courts, just as it departs from
the structure of the Rule itself. The result is all the less defensible
in that the sanctions will apply quite often to those so uninformed that they
sign a paper without necessity. Where the rules or circumstances require a
verified complaint or affidavit, the majority's construction of Rule 11 affords
no avenue of escape from this most troubling and chilling liability.
In my view, the text of the Rule does not support this extension of federal
judicial authority. Under a proper construction of Rule 11, I should think it an
abuse of discretion to sanction a represented litigant who acts in good faith
but errs as to the facts.
I
Though the case turns upon a single sentence in Rule 11, the majority recognizes
that the whole text of the Rule must be considered, not just the sentence in
isolation. See Richards v. United States, 369 U.S. 1, 11, 7 L. Ed. 2d 492, 82 S.
Ct. 585 (1962). The majority errs, however, in its interpretation of the text
which precedes and the text which follows the sentence in question.
And the result is quite contrary to the Rule's history and the commentary that
accompanied its adoption. The majority in the last analysis can rely only upon
the following sentence from the Rule: "The signature of an attorney or party
constitutes a certificate by the signer . . . that to the best of the signer's
knowledge, information, and belief formed after reasonable inquiry it is well
grounded in fact. . . ." Fed. Rule Civ. Proc. 11 (emphasis added). From this it
reasons: Business Guides is a party; agents of Business Guides signed papers
submitted on the company's behalf; therefore, Business Guides assumed a duty of
reasonable inquiry.
But Rule 11's fifth sentence must be construed in light of its first two
sentences, which provide that "every pleading, motion, and other paper of a
party represented by an attorney shall be signed by at least one attorney of
record," and that " party who is not represented by an attorney" shall sign
the papers in person.  Fed. Rule Civ. Proc. 11. Neither of the first two
sentences requires, or even contemplates, a signature by a represented
party. Nor is a represented party's signature required by any later portion of
the Rule. In context, then, one may with reason correlate "the signature of an
attorney or party" that constitutes a Rule 11 certification with the signatures
of attorneys and unrepresented parties provided for earlier in the Rule. We
employed just such an analysis last Term in Pavelic & LeFlore v. Marvel
Entertainment Group, 493 U.S. 120, 124, 107 L. Ed. 2d 438, 110 S. Ct. 456 (1989)
, reasoning that "in a paragraph beginning with a requirement of
individual signature, and then proceeding to discuss the import and consequences
of signature, . . . references to the signer in the later portions must
reasonably be thought to connote the individual signer mentioned at the outset."
As we concluded in Pavelic & LeFlore, I would again hold the drafters of Rule 11
intended to bind those whose signatures are provided for in the Rule itself. The
disjunction between represented parties and those whose signatures are
significant for purposes of the Rule is borne out by the Rule's last sentence,
which provides for sanctions upon "the person who signed , a
represented party, or both." In my view, this sentence contemplates that the
represented party and the person who signs will be different persons.
All would concede the primary purpose of the Rule is to govern those who
practice before the courts, and the history of Rule 11's certification
requirements illustrates the radical nature of the change wrought by the
majority's construction. At least since Sir Thomas More served as Chancellor of
England, bills in equity have required the signature of counsel. Risinger,
Honesty in Pleading and Its Enforcement: Some "Striking" Problems with Federal
Rule of Civil Procedure 11, 61 Minn. L. Rev. 1, 10-12, and n.22 (1976). Counsel
could be required to pay the costs of an aggrieved party if a bill contained
"irrelevant, impertinent, or scandalous" matter. J. Story, Equity Pleadings §
47, pp. 41-42 (1838). Justice Story explained that the purpose of the required
signature was "to secure regularity, relevancy and decency in the allegations
of the Bill, and the responsibility and guaranty of counsel,
that upon the instructions given to him, and the case laid before him, there is
good ground for the suit in the manner in which it is framed." See Risinger,
supra, at 9-13. Justice Story's explanation for counsel's signature was
incorporated into Rule XXIV of the Equity Rules of 1842, 1 and the certification
requirements were expanded in Rule 24 of the 1912 Equity Rules. 2 See Risinger,
supra, at 13. Rule 11, adopted in 1938, extended the signature requirement
beyond attorneys to encompass unrepresented parties as well. 3 But it
did not apply the certification requirements to unrepresented parties until
1983.
The 1983 amendments made substantial changes in Rule 11, expanding the duties
imposed by the certification provisions, extending the certification
requirements to unrepresented parties, and establishing that sanctions could, at
least in some circumstances, be imposed on represented parties. But in light of
the history of Rule 11's certification provisions as a set of duties imposed on
counsel, I see no reason to believe that the Rule as amended attaches any
particular significance to the signature of a represented party. It is more
plausible that the language relied upon by the majority was designed to bring
the signatures of unrepresented parties, already required by the Rule, within
the certification provisions. This ensures that every pleading, motion, or other
paper filed in federal court bears at least one signature constituting a Rule 11
certification. Applying the certification requirements to those who appear on
their own behalf preserves the Rule's well-understood object of imposing
obligations on those who practice before the court. A pro se litigant in essence
stands in the place of an attorney. By its uncritical extension of the Rule's
certification provisions to represented parties, the majority's reading severs
the certification requirements from their purpose and origin.
If the drafters of the 1983 amendments had intended a radical departure from
prior practice by imposing duties on represented parties that before had been
imposed only on attorneys, one might expect discussion of the change in the
Advisory Committee's Notes accompanying the 1983 amendments. But the Notes say
nothing of the kind. They refer instead to "the standard of conduct expected of
attorneys who sign pleadings and motions," or the "expanded nature of the
lawyer's certification," or employ similar phrases indicating that the Rule's
certification duties relate to attorneys and those who perform the functions of
attorneys. Advisory Committee's Notes on Fed. Rule Civ. Proc. 11, 28 U. S. C.
App., pp. 575-576 (emphasis added). 4 In fact, the Notes imply that Rule
11 certification requirements were not intended to attach to the signature of a
represented party, and that a represented party may be held liable for sanctions
only when his attorney has signed a paper in violation of the Rule. For
instance, the Notes provide:
"If the duty imposed by the rule is violated, the court should have
the discretion to impose sanctions on either the attorney, the party
the signing attorney represents, or both, or on an unrepresented party
who signed the pleading, and the new rule so provides." Id., at 576
(emphasis added).
The failure to mention the signature of a represented party is a startling
omission if such a signature could violate the Rule. The assumption of this
passage, that a represented party can be sanctioned in some instances because
his attorney signed in violation of the Rule, not because the party did, finds
further support in the next paragraph of the Notes. It begins, "Even though it
is the attorney whose signature violates the rule, it may be appropriate under
the circumstances of the case to impose a sanction on the client." Ibid.
(emphasis added).
Consider as well the portion of the Notes indicating that "amended Rule 11
continues to apply to anyone who signs a pleading, motion, or other paper."
Ibid. (emphasis added). Since Rule 11 did not impose any duties on a represented
party who signed papers prior to 1983, it is difficult to fathom what this
passage means if the 1983 amendments had the effect attributed to them by the
majority. The passage makes sense only if it means that Rule 11 continues to
apply to anyone whose signature is provided for in the Rule itself.
With little support for its views in the text of Rule 11 or the Advisory
Committee's Notes, the majority turns to the works of scholars. Even
here, though, the passages quoted from the treatise authored by
Professors Wright and Miller do not seem to me unambiguous endorsements of the
majority's position. They speak of Rule 11's expansion to "'all signers, not
just attorneys'" or "'non-attorney signers.'" Ante, at 545-546 (quoting 5A C.
Wright & A. Miller, Federal Practice and Procedure § 1331, pp. 21-22, and n.54
(2d ed. 1990)). But "signer" is a term of art in Rule 11, and under a proper
interpretation it applies to those whose signatures the Rule itself requires. In
any event, these snippets from a multivolume treatise do not reflect studied
consideration of the precise question before the Court, whether a represented
party's signature comes within the Rule 11 certification requirements. The only
explicit reference I find in that treatise to the signature of a represented
party is the statement that such signatures are "unnecessary, but not improper."
5A Wright & Miller, supra, § 1333, at 47. This falls far short of the majority's
position.
The majority's construction can draw scant support from the deterrent policies
of Rule 11. See Cooter & Gell v. Hartmarx Corp., 496 U.S. 384, 393, 110 L. Ed.
2d 359, 110 S. Ct. 2447 (1990) ("Any interpretation  must give
effect to the Rule's central goal of deterrence"). Since the Rule does not
require represented parties to sign pleadings, motions, or other papers, the
certification requirements will apply in many instances to a represented party
who signs a paper as a volunteer. Given the majority's holding, enlistees will
be few and far between. It can be supposed that after today's decision, most
represented parties who sign papers without necessity will do so unaware that
they subject themselves to the risk of sanctions. If so, their conduct will not
be affected by the duties assumed. If the Rule 11 certification requirements
were intended to apply to represented parties, its provisions would require them
to sign papers covered by the Rule, not leave it as an option. I can
imagine no plausible reason for leaving it to the discretion of a represented
party whether to assume Rule 11 certification duties and the concomitant risk of
sanctions. The majority's suggestion that a represented party's signature might
induce a court to give greater credence to a submitted paper, ante, at 546,
provides little justification for construing Rule 11 to become a trap for the
unwary. Rule 11 already requires a represented party's attorney to sign, and few
courts will be swayed by the fact that a pleading bears two Rule 11 signatures
rather than one.
The majority errs in suggesting that Rule 11's third sentence, coupled with Rule
65(b), "required" the signature of Business Guides. Ante, at 543. Rule 65(b)
requires that applications for temporary restraining orders be verified or
supported by affidavit. Since, as I explain, infra, at 562, affidavits are not
"papers" within the meaning of the Rule and are often signed by individual
witnesses and not parties, the Rules did not require Business Guides to sign
here.
Moreover, the majority's suggestion that Rule 11's third sentence "require,"
ante, at 543, or "provide for," ante, at 544, signatures by represented
parties ignores the evident fact that this sentence abolishes any
verification or affidavit requirement "except when otherwise specifically
provided by rule or statute." Of course, the sentence in question recognizes
that certain rules and statutes, such as Rule 65(b), still provide for
complaints verified by parties or accompanied by affidavits. See, e. g., Fed.
Rule Civ. Proc. 23.1 (shareholder derivative suit); Fed. Rule Civ. Proc.
27(a)(1) (perpetuation of testimony); Fed. Rule Civ. Proc. 65(b) (ex parte
request for temporary restraining order); 28 U. S. C. § 1734(b) (application for
order establishing lost or destroyed record); § 2242 (application for writ of
habeas corpus); see generally 5A Wright & Miller, supra, § 1339.  It is not
plausible to argue that Rule 11 seeks to bring those documents within its ambit,
however, for this portion of the Rule existed prior to 1983, when represented
parties were mentioned for the first time. Wrongful
verification already subjects one to potential prosecution for perjury, 18 U. S.
C. §§ 1621, 1623, and it is not clear why Rule 11 would impose additional duties
on represented parties in those few instances where verification is necessary.
Further, if the drafters of Rule 11 had intended to subject a verifying party to
the duties imposed on a Rule 11 signer, a plain statement to that effect in the
text of the Rule would have accomplished that result without the odd
consequences of the majority's analysis.
The majority's holding that affidavits are included among the "pleadings,
motions, or other papers" covered by Rule 11 will doubtless be the portion of
its opinion having the greatest impact, and will come as a surprise to many
members of the bar. An affidavit submitted in support of a represented party's
position will now have to be signed by at least one attorney, or else must be
stricken pursuant to Rule 11's sixth sentence. I would construe the "papers"
covered by Rule 11 to be those which, like pleadings or motions, invoke the
power of the court, as distinct from supporting affidavits alleging factual
matters as in this case or under Federal Rule of Civil Procedure 56. Pursuant to
Rule 11, one who signs a paper certifies that it "is warranted by existing law
or a good faith argument for the extension, modification, or reversal of
existing law." Since it would be meaningless to make such a certification with
respect to an evidentiary document, I do not believe affidavits come within the
intended scope of the Rule. As the majority all but admits, ante, at 549, its
holding renders superfluous Rule 56(g), which imposes sanctions for summary
judgment affidavits submitted in bad faith, since any affidavit submitted in bad
faith will also fail the Rule 11 certification standards.
Though it seems unnecessary to the proper resolution of the case, I feel
compelled to point out one further difficulty with the majority's analysis. The
majority reasons that Business Guides here incurs liability under the portion of
the Rule's last sentence permitting a court to sanction "the person who
signed" a pleading. But the majority's conclusion is in square conflict with our
interpretation of that phrase last Term in Pavelic & LeFlore, 493 U.S. 120, 107
L. Ed. 2d 438, 110 S. Ct. 456 (1989). There we construed the authority to
sanction "the person who signed" to extend only to an individual  
attorney and not to the firm on whose behalf he signed. Though a law firm cannot
be a "person who signed," the majority now says that a corporation may. But the
gist of our rationale in Pavelic & LeFlore was that the duties imposed by Rule
11's certification requirements attach to an individual signer, rather than an
entity the signer represents. We said: "It is as strange to think that the
phrase 'person who signed' in the last sentence refers to the partnership
represented by the signing attorney, as it would be to think that the earlier
phrase 'the signer has read the pleading' refers to a reading not necessarily by
the individual signer but by someone in the partnership." Id., at 124. It is
just as strange, I submit, to assert that here a corporation is the "person who
signed," and that the corporation thereby represented that it "had read the
pleading."
In Pavelic & LeFlore, moreover, we rejected an appeal to "'long and firmly
established legal principles of partnership and agency'":
"We are not dealing here . . . with common-law liability, but with a
Rule that strikingly departs from normal common-law assumptions such
as that of delegability. The signing attorney cannot leave it to some
trusted subordinate, or to one of his partners, to satisfy himself
that the filed paper is factually and legally responsible; by signing
he represents not merely the fact that it is so, but also the fact
that he personally has applied his own judgment." Id., at 125.
The majority seeks now to resurrect the same principles of agency we
put to rest last Term. The president of Business Guides and other employees
signed papers submitted in support of the company's position, and the Court
holds the company assumed a duty, perhaps delegable to other agents, to
comply with the Rule 11 certification requirements. Either the Court was wrong
last Term or it is wrong now. The duties imposed by Rule 11 either apply to
corporate entities or they do not. The better resolution would be to hold that
the signatures of represented parties, including corporations and partnerships,
have no significance for Rule 11 purposes.
II
Applied to attorneys, Rule 11's requirement of reasonable inquiry can be
justified as within the traditional power of the courts to set standards for the
bar. Our decisions recognize the "disciplinary powers which English and American
courts (the former primarily through the Inns of Court) have for centuries
possessed over members of the bar, incident to their broader responsibility for
keeping the administration of justice and the standards of professional conduct
unsullied." Cohen v. Hurley, 366 U.S. 117, 123-124, 6 L. Ed. 2d 156, 81 S. Ct.
954 (1961). An attorney acts not only as a client's representative, but also as
an officer of the court, and has a duty to serve both masters. Likewise,
applying this duty of reasonable inquiry to pro se litigants, as amended Rule 11
does, can be viewed as a corollary to the courts' power to control the conduct
of attorneys. Requiring pro se litigants to make the Rule 11 certification
ensures that, in each case, at least one person has taken responsibility for
inquiry into the relevant facts and law.
But it is a long step from this traditional judicial role to impose
on a represented party the duty of reasonable inquiry prior to the filing of a
lawsuit, measured by an objective standard applied in hindsight by a federal
judge. Until now, it had never been supposed that citizens at large are, or
ought to be, aware of the contents of the Federal Rules of Civil Procedure, or
that those Rules impose on them primary obligations for their conduct. This new
remedy far exceeds any previous authority of a federal court to sanction a
represented party. The rules we prescribe have a statutory authorization  
and need not always track the inherent authority of the federal courts. See
Sibbach v. Wilson & Co., 312 U.S. 1, 85 L. Ed. 479, 61 S. Ct. 422 (1941). At the
same time, the further our rules depart from our traditional practices, the more
troubling becomes the question of our rulemaking authority.
In the Rules Enabling Act, Congress has delegated to this Court authority to
prescribe "general rules of practice and procedure," 28 U. S. C. § 2072(a),
which may not "abridge, enlarge or modify any substantive right," § 2072(b). The
grant of authority to regulate procedure and the denial of authority to alter
substantive rights expresses proper concern for federalism and separation of
powers. See 19 C. Wright, A. Miller, & E. Cooper, Federal Practice and Procedure
§ 4509 (1982). Congress desired the courts to regulate "practice and procedure,"
an area where we have expertise and some degree of inherent authority. But
Congress wanted the definition of substantive rights left to itself in cases
where federal law applies, or to the States where state substantive law governs.
In my view, the majority's reading of Rule 11 raises troubling concerns with
respect to both separation of powers and federalism. At the federal level, the
new duty discovered by the majority in the text of the Rule is one that should
be created, if at all, by Congress. In Alyeska Pipeline Service Co. v.
Wilderness Society, 421 U.S. 240, 44 L. Ed. 2d 141, 95 S. Ct. 1612 (1975), while
confirming the authority of the courts to award attorney's fees against a party
conducting vexatious or bad-faith litigation, we reversed an award of attorney's
fees made on the theory that the prevailing party had acted as a "private
attorney general." We reaffirmed the American Rule that litigants in
most circumstances must bear their own costs, and noted that Congress had itself
provided for fee awards under various statutes when it thought fee shifting
necessary to encourage certain types of claims. We held that "it  not for
us to invade the legislature's province by redistributing litigation costs in
the manner" proposed in that case.  Id., at 271.
As interpreted by the majority, Rule 11 "redistribut litigation
costs" much like the fee-shifting theory rejected in Alyeska Pipeline. The
majority's distinction between an "appropriate sanction" under Rule 11 based on
a "discrete event" and the fee shifting at issue in Alyeska Pipeline, ante, at
553, breaks down in a case like this one where the "discrete event" was the
filing of the lawsuit and the "appropriate sanction" was the payment of
respondents' attorney's fees coupled with dismissal of the suit. Any mechanism
for redistributing costs, even the inherent sanctioning authority of the federal
courts, has the potential to affect decisions concerning whether and
where to file suit. But the risk of deterring a meritorious suit is slight where
sanctions are only available for bad-faith or frivolous claims. On the other
hand, when a party's prefiling conduct is subject to evaluation for objective
reasonableness by the court, the risk of filing suit changes and there arises a
real risk of deterring meritorious claims. Under the majority's holding in this
case, the deterrent effect will arise most often where the rules require
verification of complaints. See supra, at 562. In particular, one may expect
reticence to seek temporary restraining orders since the time pressures inherent
in such situations create an acute risk of sanctions for unreasonable prefiling
inquiry.
The majority does not tell us what standard it thinks should be applied in
deciding whether to sanction a represented party who has not signed a Rule 11
paper. Ante, at 554. The chilling impact of the majority's negligence standard
will be much greater if the majority applies it in that circumstance as well.
This result seems a plausible consequence of the majority's reasoning. See ante,
at 549-550. It is not the business of this Court to prescribe rules
"redistributing litigation costs" in a manner that discourages good-faith
attempts to vindicate rights granted by the substantive law.  Kaiser Aluminum &
Chemical Corp. v. Bonjorno, 494 U.S. 827, 835, 108 L. Ed. 2d 842, 110 S. Ct.
1570 (1990) ("The allocation of the costs accruing from litigation is a
matter for the legislature, not the courts").
Our potential incursion into matters reserved to the States also counsels
against adoption of the majority's rule. Just as the various statutory
fee-shifting mechanisms reflect policy choices by Congress regarding the extent
to which certain types of litigation should be encouraged or discouraged, state
tort law reflects comparable state policies. As interpreted by the majority,
Rule 11 places on those represented parties who sign papers subject to the Rule
duties far exceeding those imposed by state tort law. In general, States
permitting recovery for malicious prosecution or abuse of process require the
plaintiff to prove malice or improper purpose as a necessary element. W. Keeton,
D. Dobbs, R. Keeton, & D. Owen, Prosser and Keeton on Law of Torts §§ 120-121
(5th ed. 1984); 1 F. Harper, F. James, & O.  Gray, The Law of Torts § 4.8 (2d
ed. 1986); Restatement (Second) of Torts § 676 (1977). As interpreted by the
majority, Rule 11 creates a new tort of "negligent prosecution" or "accidental
abuse of process," applicable to any represented party ignorant enough to sign a
pleading or other Rule 11 paper. Cf. Response to a Practitioner's Commentary on
the Actual Use of Amended Rule 11, 54 Ford. L. Rev. 28, 29-30 (1985) (remarks of
Judge Charles Sifton); Brief for Petitioner 40.
In this case, the District Court imposed sanctions on a corporation for the
actions of its agents taken in reliance on business records developed
to safeguard the company's property rights in its own research. The decision to
impose sanctions required the court, sitting without a jury, to make judgments
about the skill and care that companies of this kind must use in their business
practices. We tolerate judgments about the care an attorney must use
because we deem judges to know the standards appropriate for the practice of
law. We do not have similar expertise in the workings of private enterprise or
the conduct and supervision of investigations made by a company to protect and
defend its rights. And though the majority would seem to suggest it, I
should not have thought that before a person or entity seeks the aid of the
federal courts, it ought to know the contents of the Federal Rules of Civil
Procedure, rules that, at least until now, were the domain of lawyers and not
the community as a whole.
A rule sanctioning misconduct during the litigation process will often satisfy
the Rules Enabling Act because it "affects only the process of enforcing
litigants' rights and not the rights themselves." Burlington Northern R. Co. v.
Woods, 480 U.S. 1, 8, 94 L. Ed. 2d 1, 107 S. Ct. 967 (1987). As applied to
attorneys, and perhaps those who act as their own attorneys, the same can be
said of Rule 11's sanctions for failure to conduct a reasonable prefiling
inquiry. That much we established in Cooter & Gell v. Hartmarx Corp., 496 U.S.
at 393. See ante, at 552. But the presumption that a Federal Rule is valid
carries less weight in a case such as this, where "the intended scope of 
Rule is uncertain," 19 Wright, Miller, & Cooper, at 147-148, and the
construction of Rule 11 adopted today extends our role far beyond its
traditional and accepted boundaries. Whether or not Rule 11 as construed by the
majority exceeds our rulemaking authority, these concerns weigh in favor of a
reasonable, alternative interpretation, one which, as I said at the outset, is
more consistent with the text of the Rule. See Cooter & Gell, supra, at 391 ("We
. . . interpret Rule 11 according to its plain meaning, . . . in light of the
scope of the congressional authorization "); 19
Wright, Miller, & Cooper, at 148 ("If a federal court concludes it is uncertain
whether a Civil Rule truly governs a given question of practice, and if a
relevant state rule of law differs, the extent to which application of the Civil
Rule would interfere with substantive rights is certainly one of the factors
that should be considered in deciding whether the Civil Rule applies. In effect,
the 'substantive rights' limitation, and the concern it reflects for
the integrity of state substantive policies, is relevant to determining the
scope of the Civil Rules").
III
Under my analysis, an attorney must violate Rule 11 before a represented party
can be sanctioned. Regardless of the standard of conduct applicable to
represented parties, I would reverse because it has not been shown on this
record that an attorney signed a paper in violation of the Rule. A Finley,
Kumble attorney did sign the original complaint and application for a temporary
restraining order. However, the District Court did not find that Finley, Kumble
lawyers had violated the Rule at the time the complaint was submitted.
The District Court did conclude that Finley, Kumble attorneys failed to conduct
a reasonable inquiry prior to submission of the Lambe declaration.
The Lambe declaration was not itself signed by an attorney, however, and, under
my analysis of the Rule, could not serve as a basis for sanctions. See also
supra, at 562. Indeed, Mr. Lambe's signature was not even the signature of a
party. Certainly, a corporation only acts through its agents; that does not mean
that all actions by a corporation's agents are actions on behalf of the
corporation. Unlike the signature of the company's president verifying the
complaint, Mr. Lambe's signature was on his own behalf, and did not in any way
purport to bind the corporation.
I doubt that the papers submitted to the court with the Lambe
declaration violate Rule 11. The only action these documents requested of the
court was that it accept the Lambe declaration under seal and review it in
camera. The relief requested was in no sense dependent on the accuracy of the
representations made by Lambe. Given the purpose of these documents, they were
well supported by fact and existing law, and an attorney's signature on these
papers would not seem to me a violation of Rule 11 certification
requirements. 5
Even were I to find an attorney violation, I would view it as an abuse of
discretion to sanction a represented party if the party has acted in good faith.
I recognize that an objective standard does, and should, govern the conduct of
the attorney. With respect to a represented party, though, I would reverse the
decision below for having applied a standard of objective reasonableness rather
than some subjective bad-faith standard.
IV
Just as patience is requisite in the temperament of the individual judge, so it
must be an attribute of the judicial system as a whole. Our annoyance at
spurious and frivolous claims, and our real concern with burdened dockets, must
not drive us to adopt interpretations of the rules that make honest claimants
fear to petition the courts. We may be justified in imposing penalties on
attorneys for negligence or mistakes in good faith; but it is quite a different
matter, and the exercise of a much greater and more questionable authority, for
us to impose that primary liability on citizens in general. These concerns
underscore my objections to the majority's holding. With respect, I dissent.
