OPINION
JUSTICE STEVENS delivered the opinion of the
Court.
Labor unions have a statutory duty to distribute campaign
literature to their membership in response to the reasonable request of any
candidate for union office. In this case the union denied such a request because
the candidate wanted the literature mailed in advance of the union's
nominating convention and a union rule prohibited such preconvention mailing.
The question presented is whether a court must evaluate the
reasonableness  of the union's rule before it decides whether the candidate's
request was reasonable. Like the Court of Appeals and the District
Court, we conclude that the statute requires us to give a negative answer to
that question.
I
The International Organization of Masters, Mates & Pilots (Union) represents
about 8,500 members employed in, or in work related to, the maritime industry.
Many of the members are away from home for extended periods of time because they
work on ships that ply the high seas. Elections of Union officers are conducted
every four years by means of a mail ballot. An international ballot committee,
which oversees the election, is elected at the convention, and an impartial
balloting agency, which conducts the balloting, is also selected by the
delegates at the convention. App. 36, 25-26. The ballots are mailed to the
membership no later than 30 days 1 after the convention at which candidates are
nominated, and must be returned within the ensuing 90-day period. Union rules
authorize the mailing of campaign literature at the candidate's expense after
nominations have been made but not before. 2 Any Union member in good standing
may be a candidate; moreover, a  candidate may nominate himself.
Respondent was an unsuccessful candidate for Union office in 1980 and 1984. On
May 9, 1988, he formally advised the international secretary-treasurer of the
Union that he would be a candidate in the election to be held in the fall and
requested that the Union provide him with mailing labels containing the names
and addresses of voting Union members to be given to a mailing service so that
he could arrange, at his own expense, for a timely mailing of "election
literature prior to the Convention." Id., at 41.
On June 2, 1988, respondent wrote to the international president of the Union
advising him that he would be a candidate for that office, that he intended to
send his first mailing to the membership on July 6, and that he had not "had the
courtesy of a reply" to his earlier letter to the secretary-treasurer. Id., at
43. Five days later, the secretary-treasurer provided respondent with the
following explanation as to why his request could not be accommodated:
"Although I can understand your eagerness in wanting to send out your
campaign literature early, please be advised that as soon
as the rules are established for mailing campaign literature, all
candidates will be  notified at the same time.
"As the practice has been in the past, and the Constitution
prescribes, the IOMM&P Convention is the event in which all candidates
officially are nominated to run for a particular office. Only after
the Convention takes place, and when the Impartial Balloting Agency is
designated, will the mailing agency to handle campaign  
literature be designated. Please refer to Article V, Section 10 of the
International Constitution. This procedure has been established so
that each candidate will have a fair and equal amount of time in which
to adequately reach the membership and to prohibit any one candidate
from having an edge over the other." Id., at 44-45.
On June 15, respondent appealed that denial to the Union general executive
board, 3 repeating his desire for action by July 5. Id., at 46. On July 6, the
General Executive Board denied his appeal. Five days later, respondent filed
this action under § 401(c) of the Labor-Management Reporting and Disclosure Act
of 1959 (LMRDA), 73 Stat. 532, 29 U. S. C. § 481(c). 4 In his complaint,
respondent alleged that the convention was scheduled to begin on August
22 and that he wanted "to encourage the membership to begin consideration of his
candidacy and of the issues he hoped to raise during his campaign before the
deadline for making nominations, both in order to persuade the membership that
he should be nominated and elected, and to attract support from individuals who
might otherwise be inclined to run for office themselves or to encourage other
members to do so." App. 8-9. 5
Two weeks later, after both sides had filed affidavits and a
hearing had been held, the District Court entered a preliminary injunction
directing the Union and its two main officers "within forty-eight hours, and
again in response to any future requests" to deliver the names and addresses of
the Union members to a mailing service acceptable to the parties. Id., at 74.
The order also provided that respondent should pay for the costs of the mailing
service. Id., at 74-75. The District Court based its decision on alternative
grounds. First, it held that the clear language of § 401(c) required it to focus
on the reasonableness of respondent's request rather than on the reasonableness
of the Union rule under which the request was denied. In addition, the District
Court concluded that the request  to make a campaign distribution approximately
one month before the convention was "clearly reasonable," and that if the
application of a Union rule resulted in the rejection of such a request, the
rule was invalid. Id., at 77.
Second, and alternatively, the District Court held that even if the standard of
review is the reasonableness of the Union rule, rather than the
reasonableness of respondent's request, the rule was unreasonable because
preconvention campaigning was essential to introducing a candidate and his
ideas to Union members and because the postconvention ballot period of
90 days was inadequate for effective campaigning in a Union whose members' work
kept them away from home for substantial periods of time. Id., at 77-78.
The United States Court of Appeals for the Fourth Circuit affirmed.  Brown v.
Lowen, 857 F.2d 216 (1988). 6 The majority held that the question whether
respondent was entitled to have his request granted depended "entirely on
whether his request may be said to be reasonable." Id., at 217. This conclusion
involved "nothing more than a reading of the plain language of the  statute,"
ibid., and was buttressed by the statutory purpose of ensuring Union democracy:
"When the union bureaucracy has exclusive control of the union
membership lists, with addresses, as in this case, and that
bureaucracy has continuous contact with the union membership and
particularly the local union officers, the advantages of incumbency
over any attempt of an insurgent to promote his candidacy before or
after the quadrennial nominating convention of the union are obvious.
By requiring unions to comply with all reasonable requests of
candidates for access to the union lists these advantages of
incumbency are reasonably moderated. And it was to provide that very
moderation of the advantages of incumbency which was the intention of
the Act." Id., at 218.
The majority found nothing unreasonable in respondent's request and rejected the
Union's argument that it could limit the time in which literature
could be distributed in order to avoid discrimination, "since any
candidate, whether an incumbent or an insurgent, has the same rights as the
plaintiff." Ibid.
The dissenting judge found nothing unreasonable or discriminatory in the
Union's election procedures. According to the dissent, a candidate's request
that did not conform to a reasonable union rule was itself "per se
unreasonable." Id., at 219. After a rehearing en banc, 7 by a vote of 8 to 2,
the Court of Appeals adopted the majority's holding and affirmed the District
Court.  Brown v. Lowen, 889 F.2d 58 (1989) (per curiam). We granted certiorari,
496 U.S. 935 (1990), to resolve the conflict between the Fourth Circuit's
decision in this case and an earlier decision by the Third Circuit in Donovan v.
Metropolitan District Council of Carpenters, 797 F.2d 140 (1986).
II
Three important propositions are undisputed. First, even though
respondent's campaign literature has been distributed and even though he lost
the election by a small margin, the case is not moot. Respondent has run for
office before and may well do so again. 8 The likelihood that the Union's rule
would again present an obstacle to a preconvention mailing by respondent makes
this controversy sufficiently capable of repetition to preserve our
jurisdiction. See, e. g., Moore v. Ogilvie, 394 U.S. 814, 816, 23 L. Ed. 2d 1,
89 S. Ct. 1493 (1969) ("The problem is therefore 'capable of repetition, yet
evading review,' Southern Pacific Terminal Co. v. Interstate Commerce
Commission, 219 U.S. 498, 515, 55 L. Ed. 310, 31 S. Ct. 279 ").
Second, even though respondent's candidacy had not
been certified at a postconvention meeting of the Union impartial ballot
committee in accordance with the Union's formal election procedures, it is clear
that respondent was a "bona fide candidate for office" within the meaning of the
statute when he made his preconvention request to distribute campaign
literature. 29 U. S. C. § 481(c).   Section 401(e) of the LMRDA guarantees
the right of every union member in good standing to be a candidate subject to
the "reasonable qualifications uniformly imposed" by the union. 9 The Union, in
accordance with our opinions in Wirtz v. Hotel Employees, 391 U.S. 492, 20 L.
Ed. 2d 763, 88 S. Ct. 1743 (1968), and Steelworkers v. Usery, 429
U.S. 305, 50 L. Ed. 2d 502, 97 S. Ct. 611 (1977), does not contend that it would
be reasonable to refuse to recognize an eligible candidate until after the
nominating process is completed. As we explained in Wirtz:
"Congress plainly did not intend that the authorization in § 401(e) of
'reasonable qualifications uniformly imposed' should be given a broad
reach. The contrary is implicit in the legislative history  of the
section and in its wording that 'every member in good standing shall
be eligible to be a candidate and to hold office . . . .' This
conclusion is buttressed by other provisions of the Act which stress
freedom of members to nominate candidates for office. Unduly
restrictive candidacy qualifications can result in the abuses of
entrenched leadership that the LMRDA was expressly enacted to curb.
The check of democratic elections as a preventive measure is seriously
impaired by candidacy qualifications which substantially
deplete the ranks of those who might run in opposition to incumbents.
"It follows therefore that whether the Local 6 bylaw is a 'reasonable
qualification' within the meaning of § 401(e) must be measured in
terms of its consistency with the Act's command to unions to conduct
'free and democratic' union elections." 391 U.S. at 499 (footnote
omitted).
Third, apart from the fact that respondent's request violated
the Union rule against preconvention mailings, there is no basis for contending
that the request was not "reasonable" within the meaning of § 401(c). No
question is raised about respondent's responsibility for the cost of the mailing
or about any administrative problem in complying with his request. The sole
issue is whether the Union rule rendered an otherwise reasonable request
unreasonable.
III
The text, structure, and purpose of Title
IV of the LMRDA all support the conclusion that our inquiry should focus
primarily on the reasonableness of the candidate's request rather than on the
reasonableness of the Union's rule curtailing the period in which campaign
literature may be mailed.
The language of § 401(c) explicitly instructs the Union
and its officers "to comply with all reasonable requests of any candidate to
distribute by mail or otherwise at the candidate's expense campaign literature .
. . ." 29 U. S. C. § 481(c) (emphasis added). The language of the statute
plainly requires unions to comply with "all reasonable requests," and just as
plainly does not require union  members to comply with "all reasonable
rules" when making such requests. Unlike the member's right to run for union
office, which is created by § 401(e) and made expressly subject to the
"reasonable qualifications uniformly imposed" by the Union, and unlike the
member's speech and voting rights, which are governed by sections of the LMRDA
such as §§ 101(a)(1) and 101(a)(2), 29 U. S. C. §§ 411(a)(1) and 411(a)
(2), and are made "subject to reasonable rules" in the union constitution, the
§ 401(c) right is unqualified. 10 Moreover, unlike other rights
created by Title IV that are judicially enforceable only in actions brought by
the Secretary of Labor, the § 401(c) right is directly enforceable in an action
brought by the individual union member. Thus, as the language of the statute
suggests, Congress gave this right pertaining to campaign literature a special
status that it did not confer upon other rights it granted to union members.
The special purpose of Title IV was to ensure free and
democratic union elections. See Wirtz v. Glass Bottle Blowers, 389 U.S. 463,
470, 19 L. Ed. 2d 705, 88 S. Ct. 643 (1968). The statutory guarantees are
specifically designed to offset the "inherent advantage over potential rank and
file challengers" possessed by incumbent union leadership.  Id., at 474. One of
the advantages identified by Archibald Cox in his testimony in support of the
Act is the incumbents' control of "the union newspaper which is the chief
vehicle for communication with the members." 11 A broad interpretation of the
candidate's right to distribute literature commenting on the positions advocated
in the union press is consistent with the statute's basic purpose.
The Union advances three related arguments in support of its
position that mailing requests should be considered unreasonable if they do not
comply with nondiscriminatory rules that have been adopted through
democratic procedures. First, the Union correctly notes that any fair election
must be conducted in accordance with predetermined rules, and that the
reasonableness of any election-related request must be evaluated in view of
those rules. Second, it argues that the rule at issue furthers its duty to avoid
discrimination in the conduct of the election. Third, it relies on the
congressional policy of avoiding unnecessary intervention in the internal
affairs of labor unions.
We find these arguments unpersuasive. Rules must, of course, be adopted to
govern the process of nominating candidates, casting ballots, and counting
votes. Moreover, in connection with the process of distributing campaign
literature to the membership, rules that establish the procedures for making
mailing requests, selecting a mailing agent, and paying the cost of the mailing
are no doubt desirable. The justifications underlying such rules (uniformity of
treatment, reduction of administrative burdens)  and the fair notice provided to
candidates by the existence and publication of such rules all would be relevant
in determining whether a request is reasonable. But these concerns
in no way dictate a rule prohibiting mailings before a nominating convention.
Here, in particular, a preconvention mailing would not place any burden on the
Union because the candidate must assume the cost of the mailing. Moreover, in
union elections, as in political elections, it is fair to assume that
more, rather than less, freedom in the exchange of views will contribute to the
democratic process. Here, respondent, by his request for a preconvention
mailing, hoped to provide Union members with "more information" with which to
inform their voting decisions. App. 14.
The concern about discrimination among individual candidates is surely satisfied
by a rule that allows any candidate access to the membership before the
convention as well as by a rule that denies all candidates such access. Indeed,
arguably opening the channels of communication to all candidates as
soon as possible better serves the interest in leveling the playing field
because it offsets the inherent advantage that incumbents and  their allies may
possess through their control of the union press and the electoral lists during
the four years in which they have been in office.
The policy of avoiding unnecessary intervention into internal union affairs is
reflected in several provisions of the LMRDA. We have already referred to the
fact that the right to hold union office protected by § 401(e) is "subject to .
. . reasonable qualifications uniformly imposed." 29 U. S. C. § 481(e).
Similarly, the provision in § 101(a)(1) of the LMRDA, 29 U. S. C. § 411(a)(1),
governing the right to nominate candidates, to vote in elections, and to attend
union meetings is expressly made subject to the union's "reasonable rules and
regulations." Moreover, the member's right to speak freely at union meetings is
"subject to the organization's established and reasonable rules pertaining to
the conduct of meetings." 29 U. S. C. § 411(a)(2). These expressions of respect
for internal union rules are notably absent in § 401(c).
Section 401(c) simply prescribes a straightforward test: Is
the candidate's distribution request reasonable?  Having dispensed with the
Union's argument that a request is per se unreasonable simply because it
conflicts with a union rule, we need only note again that in this case the Union
does not advance any other reason for suggesting that respondent's request was
unreasonable. The Union does not contend, for example, that respondent's request
caused administrative or financial hardship to the Union or that it
discriminated against any other candidate. In the absence of any showing by the
Union as to the unreasonableness of the request, we hold, consistent with the
lower courts' findings, that respondent's request was reasonable and must be
granted.
The judgment of the Court of Appeals is affirmed.
It is so ordered.
