OPINION
CHIEF JUSTICE REHNQUIST delivered the opinion of
the Court.
The issue presented in this case is whether a State that has
not asserted jurisdiction over Indian lands under Public Law 280 may validly tax
sales of goods to tribesmen and nonmembers occurring on land held in trust for a
federally recognized Indian tribe. We conclude that under the doctrine of tribal
sovereign immunity, the State may not tax such sales to Indians, but remains
free to collect taxes on sales to nonmembers of the tribe.
Respondent, the Citizen Band Potawatomi Indian Tribe of Oklahoma (Potawatomis or
Tribe), owns and operates a convenience store in Oklahoma on land held in trust
for it by the Federal Government. For many years, the Potawatomis have sold
cigarettes at the convenience store without collecting Oklahoma's state
cigarette tax on these sales. In 1987, petitioner, the Oklahoma Tax Commission
(Oklahoma or Commission), served the Potawatomis with an assessment letter,
demanding that they pay $ 2.7 million for taxes on cigarette sales occurring
between 1982 and 1986. The Potawatomis filed suit to enjoin the
assessment in the United States District Court for the Western District of
Oklahoma.
Oklahoma  counterclaimed, asking the District Court to enforce its $ 2.7 million
claim against the Tribe and to enjoin the Potawatomis from selling cigarettes in
the future without collecting and remitting state taxes on those sales.
The Potawatomis moved to dismiss the counterclaim on the ground that the Tribe
had not waived its sovereign immunity and therefore could not be sued by the
State. The District Court denied the Potawatomis' motion to dismiss and
proceeded to trial. On the merits, the District Court concluded that the
Commission lacked the authority to tax the on-reservation cigarette sales to
tribal members or to tax the Tribe directly. It held, therefore, that the Tribe
was immune from Oklahoma's suit to collect past unpaid taxes directly from the
Tribe. Nonetheless, the District Court held that Oklahoma could require the
Tribe to collect taxes prospectively for onreservation sales to nonmembers of
the Tribe. Accordingly, the court ordered the Tribe to collect taxes on sales to
nontribal members, and to comply with all statutory recordkeeping requirements.
The Tribe appealed the District Court's denial of its motion to dismiss
and the court's order requiring it to collect  and remit taxes on sales to
nonmembers. The United States Court of Appeals for the Tenth Circuit reversed.
888 F.2d 1303 (1989). That court held that the District Court erred in
entertaining Oklahoma's counterclaims because the Potawatomis enjoy absolute
sovereign immunity from suit, and had not waived that immunity by filing an
action for injunctive relief. The Court of Appeals further held that Oklahoma
lacked the authority to impose a tax on any sales that occur on the reservation,
regardless of whether they are to tribesmen or nonmembers. It concluded that
"because the convenience store is located on land over which the Potawatomis
retain sovereign powers, Oklahoma has no authority to tax the store's
transactions unless Oklahoma has received an independent jurisdictional grant of
authority from Congress." Id., at 1306. Finding no independent jurisdictional
grant of authority to tax the Potawatomis, the Court of Appeals ordered the
District Court to grant the Potawatomis' request for an injunction.
We granted certiorari to resolve an apparent conflict with this Court's
precedents and to clarify the law of sovereign  immunity with respect to the
collection of sales taxes on Indian lands. 498 U.S. 806, 112 L. Ed. 2d 14, 111
S. Ct. 37 (1990). We now affirm in part and reverse in part.
I
Indian tribes are
"domestic dependent nations" that exercise inherent sovereign authority over
their members and territories.  Cherokee Nation v. Georgia, 5 Pet. 1, 17cc
(1831). Suits against Indian tribes are thus barred by sovereign immunity absent
a clear waiver by the tribe or congressional abrogation.  Santa Clara Pueblo v.
Martinez, 436 U.S. 49, 58, 56 L. Ed. 2d 106, 98 S. Ct. 1670 (1978). Petitioner
acknowledges that Indian tribes generally enjoy sovereign immunity, but argues
that the Potawatomis waived their sovereign immunity by seeking an injunction
against the Commission's proposed tax assessment. It argues that, to
the extent that the Commission's counter-claims were "compulsory" under Federal
Rule of Civil Procedure 13(a), the District Court did not need any independent
jurisdictional basis to hear those claims.
We rejected an identical contention over a half-century ago in United States v.
United States Fidelity & Guaranty Co., 309 U.S. 506, 511-512, 84 L. Ed. 894, 60
S. Ct. 653 (1940).  In that case, a surety bondholder claimed that a federal
court had jurisdiction to hear its state-law counterclaim against an Indian
Tribe because the Tribe's initial action to enforce the bond constituted a
waiver of sovereign immunity. We held that   a tribe does not waive its
sovereign immunity from actions that could not otherwise be brought against it
merely because those actions were pleaded in a counterclaim to an action filed
by the tribe. Id., at 513. "Possessing . . . immunity from direct suit, we are
of the opinion  possess a similar immunity from
cross-suits." Ibid. Oklahoma does not argue that it received congressional
authorization to adjudicate a counter-claim against the Tribe, and the case is
therefore controlled by Fidelity & Guaranty. We uphold the Court of Appeals'
determination that the Tribe did not waive its sovereign immunity merely
by filing an action for injunctive relief.
Oklahoma offers an alternative, and more far-reaching, basis for reversing the
Court of Appeals' dismissal of its counterclaims. It urges this Court to
construe more narrowly, or abandon entirely, the doctrine of tribal sovereign
immunity. Oklahoma contends that the tribal sovereign immunity doctrine
impermissibly burdens the administration of state tax laws. At the very least,
Oklahoma proposes that the Court modify Fidelity & Guaranty, because tribal
business activities such as cigarette sales are now so detached from traditional
tribal interests that the tribal-sovereignty doctrine no longer makes
sense in this context. The sovereignty doctrine, it maintains, should be limited
to the tribal courts and the internal affairs of tribal government, because no
purpose is served by insulating tribal business ventures from the authority of
the States to administer their laws.
A doctrine of Indian tribal sovereign immunity
was originally enunciated by this Court and has been reaffirmed in a number of
cases.  Turner v. United States, 248 U.S. 354, 358, 63 L. Ed. 291, 39 S. Ct. 109
(1919);Santa Clara Pueblo v. Martinez, supra, at 58.Congress has always been at
liberty to dispense with such tribal immunity or to limit it. Although Congress
has occasionally authorized limited classes of suits against Indian tribes, it
has never authorized suits to enforce tax assessments.  Instead, Congress has
consistently reiterated its approval of the immunity doctrine. See, e. g.,
Indian Financing Act of 1974, 88 Stat. 77, 25 U. S. C. § 1451 et seq., and the
Indian Self-Determination and Education Assistance Act, 88 Stat. 2203, 25 U. S.
C. § 450 et seq. These Acts reflect Congress' desire to promote the "goal of
Indian self-government, including its 'overriding goal' of encouraging tribal
self-sufficiency and economic development." California v. Cabazon
Band of Mission Indians, 480 U.S. 202, 216, 94 L. Ed. 2d 244, 107 S. Ct. 1083
(1987). Under these circumstances, we are not disposed to modify the
long-established principle of tribal sovereign immunity.
Finally, Oklahoma asserts that even if sovereign
immunity applies to direct actions against tribes arising from activities on the
reservation, that immunity should not apply to the facts of this case. The State
contends that the Potawatomis' cigarette sales do not, in fact, occur on a
"reservation." Relying upon our decision in Mescalero Apache Tribe v. Jones, 411
U.S. 145, 36 L. Ed. 2d 114, 93 S. Ct. 1267 (1973), Oklahoma  argues that the
tribal convenience store should be held subject to state tax laws because it
does not operate on a formally designated "reservation," but on land held in
trust for the Potawatomis. Neither Mescalero nor any other precedent of this
Court has ever drawn the distinction between tribal trust land and reservations
that Oklahoma urges. In United States v. John, 437 U.S. 634, 57 L. Ed. 2d 489,
98 S. Ct. 2541 (1978), we stated that   the test for determining whether
land is Indian country does not turn upon whether that land is denominated
"trust land" or "reservation." Rather, we ask whether the area has been
"'validly set apart for the use of the Indians as such, under the
superintendence of the Government.'" Id., at 648-649; see also United States v.
McGowan, 302 U.S. 535, 539, 82 L. Ed. 410, 58 S. Ct. 286 (1938).
Mescalero is not to the contrary; that case involved a ski resort outside of the
reservation boundaries operated by the Tribe under a 30-year lease from the
Forest Service. We said that "absent express federal law to the contrary,
Indians going beyond reservation boundaries have generally been held subject to
nondiscriminatory  state law otherwise applicable to all citizens of the State."
411 U.S. at 148-149. Here, by contrast, the property in question is held by the
Federal Government in trust for the benefit of the Potawatomis. As in John, we
find that this trust land is "validly set apart" and thus qualifies as a
reservation for tribal immunity purposes.  437 U.S. at 649.
II
Oklahoma attacks the conclusion of the Court of Appeals that the
sovereign immunity of the Tribe prevents it from being liable for the
collection of state taxes on the sale of cigarettes to nonmembers of the Tribe.
The Tribe, in turn, argues that this issue is not properly before us. It
observes that the only issue presented in its prayer for an injunction was
whether Oklahoma could require it to pay the challenged assessment for
previously uncollected taxes. The complaint did not challenge
Oklahoma's authority to require the Tribe to collect the sales tax
prospectively, and thus, the Tribe argues, that question was never put in issue.
We do not agree. The Tribe's complaint alleged that Oklahoma lacked authority to
impose a sales tax directly upon the Tribe. The  District Court held that the
Tribe could be required to collect the tax on sales to nonmembers. The Court of
Appeals reversed the decision of the District Court on this point. While
neither of these courts need have reached that question, they both
did.   The question is fairly subsumed in the "questions presented" in the
petition for certiorari, and both parties have briefed it. We have the authority
to decide it and proceed to do so. See Vance v. Terrazas, 444 U.S. 252, 258-259,
n.5, 62 L. Ed. 2d 461, 100 S. Ct. 540 (1980).
Although   the doctrine of tribal sovereign immunity
applies to the Potawatomis, that doctrine does not excuse a tribe from all
obligations to assist in the collection of validly imposed state sales taxes.
Washington v. Confederated Tribes of Colville Reservation, 447 U.S. 134, 65 L.
Ed. 2d 10, 100 S. Ct. 2069 (1980). Oklahoma argues that the Potawatomis' tribal
immunity notwithstanding, it has the authority to tax sales of cigarettes to
nonmembers of the Tribe at the Tribe's convenience store. We agree. In Moe v.
Confederated Salish and Kootenai Tribes, 425 U.S. 463, 48 L. Ed. 2d 96, 96 S.
Ct. 1634 (1976), this Court held that   Indian retailers on an Indian
reservation  may be required to collect all state taxes applicable to sales to
non-Indians. We determined that requiring the tribal seller to collect these
taxes was a minimal burden justified by the State's interest in assuring the
payment of these concededly lawful taxes.  Id., at 483. "Without the simple
expedient of having the retailer collect the sales tax from non-Indian
purchasers, it is clear that wholesale violations of the law by the latter class
will go virtually unchecked." Id., at 482. Only four years later we reiterated
this view, ruling that tribal sellers are obliged to collect and remit state
taxes on sales to nonmembers at Indian smoke-shops on reservation lands.
Colville, supra.
The Court of Appeals thought this case was distinguishable from Moe and Colville
. It observed the State of Washington had asserted jurisdiction over civil
causes of action in Indian country as permitted by Public Law 280. Pub. L. 280,
67 Stat. 588, 28 U. S. C. § 1360. The court contrasted Colville to this case, in
which Oklahoma disclaimed jurisdiction over Indian lands upon entering the Union
and did not  reassert jurisdiction over these lands pursuant to Public Law 280.
The Court of Appeals concluded that because Oklahoma did not elect to assert
jurisdiction under Public Law 280, the Potawatomis were immune from any
requirement of Oklahoma state tax law.
Neither Moe nor Colville depended upon the State's assertion of jurisdiction
under Public Law 280. Those cases stand for the proposition that the doctrine of
tribal sovereign immunity does not prevent a State from requiring Indian
retailers doing business on tribal reservations to collect a state-imposed
cigarette tax on their sales to nonmembers of the Tribe. Colville's only
reference to Public Law 280 relates to a concession that the statute did not
furnish a basis for taxing sales to tribe members.  447 U.S. at 142, n.8. Public
Law 280 merely permits a State to assume jurisdiction over "civil causes of
action" in Indian country. We have never held that Public Law 280 is
independently sufficient to confer authority on a State to extend the full range
of its regulatory authority, including taxation, over Indians and Indian
reservations. Bryan v. Itasca County, 426 U.S. 373, 48 L. Ed. 2d 710, 96 S. Ct.
2102 (1976);  see also Rice v. Rehner, 463 U.S. 713, 734, n.18, 77
L. Ed. 2d 961, 103 S. Ct. 3291 (1983); Cabazon, 480 U.S. at 208-210, and n.8.
Thus, it is simply incorrect to conclude that Public Law 280
was the essential (yet unspoken) basis for this Court's decision in Colville.
In view of our conclusion with respect to sovereign immunity of the Tribe from
suit by the State, Oklahoma complains that, in effect, decisions such as Moe and
Colville give them a right without any remedy. There is no doubt that sovereign
immunity bars the State from pursuing the most efficient remedy, but we are not
persuaded that it lacks any adequate alternatives. We have never held that
individual agents or officers of a tribe are not liable for damages in actions
brought by the State. See Ex parte Young, 209 U.S. 123, 52 L. Ed. 714, 28 S. Ct.
441 (1908). And under today's decision, States may of course collect the sales
tax from cigarette wholesalers, either by seizing unstamped cigarettes off the
reservation, Colville, supra, at 161-162, or by assessing wholesalers who
supplied unstamped cigarettes to the tribal stores, City Vending of Muskogee,
Inc. v. Oklahoma Tax Comm'n, 898 F.2d 122 (CA10 1990).  States may also enter
into agreements with the tribes to adopt a mutually satisfactory regime for the
collection of this sort of tax. See 48 Stat. 987, as amended, 25 U. S. C. § 476.
And if Oklahoma and other States similarly situated find that none of these
alternatives produce the revenues to which they are entitled, they may of course
seek appropriate legislation from Congress.
The judgment of the Court of Appeals is accordingly
Affirmed in part and reversed in part.
CONCUR BY: STEVENS

JUSTICE STEVENS, concurring.
The doctrine of sovereign immunity is founded upon an anachronistic fiction. See
Nevada v. Hall, 440 U.S. 410, 414-416, 59 L. Ed. 2d 416, 99 S. Ct. 1182 (1979).
In my opinion all Governments -- federal, state, and tribal -- should generally
be accountable for their illegal conduct. The rule that an Indian tribe is
immune from an action for damages absent its consent is, however, an established
part of our law. See United States v. United States Fidelity & Guaranty Co., 309
U.S. 506, 512-513, 84 L. Ed. 894, 60 S. Ct. 653 (1940). Nevertheless, I
am not sure that the rule of tribal sovereign immunity extends to cases arising
from  a tribe's conduct of commercial activity outside its own territory, cf.
28 U. S. C. § 1605(a) ("A foreign state shall not be immune from the
jurisdiction of courts of the United States or of the States in any case . . .
(2) in which the action is based upon a commercial activity carried on in the
United States by a foreign state . . ."), or that it applies to claims for
prospective equitable relief against a tribe, cf.  Edelman v. Jordan, 415 U.S.
651, 664-665, 39 L. Ed. 2d 662, 94 S. Ct. 1347 (1974) (Eleventh Amendment bars
suits against States for retroactive monetary relief, but not for prospective
injunctive relief).
In analyzing whether the Citizen Band Potawatomi Indian Tribe can be held
prospectively liable for taxes on the sale of cigarettes, the Court
today in effect acknowledges limits to a tribe's sovereign immunity, although it
does not do so explicitly. The Court affirms the Court of Appeals' holding that
the Oklahoma Tax Commission's counterclaim against the Tribe was properly
dismissed on grounds of the Tribe's sovereign immunity, but then proceeds to
address the precise question raised in the counterclaim -- whether the Tribe in
the future can be assessed for taxes on its sales of cigarettes. The Court
indulges in this anomaly by reasoning that the issue of the Tribe's prospective
liability "is fairly subsumed" in the Tribe's main action seeking to have the
tax commission enjoined from collecting back taxes. See ante, at 512.
In my opinion, however, the issue of prospective liability is properly presented
only in the tax commission's counter-claim. It is quite possible to decide that
the Tribe cannot be liable for past sales taxes which it never collected without
going on to decide whether the tax commission may require the Tribe to  
collect state taxes on its sales in the first place. In my opinion the Court
correctly reaches the issue of the Tribe's prospective liability and correctly
holds that the State may collect taxes on tribal sales to non-Indians. My
purpose in writing separately is to emphasize that the Court's holding  
in effect rejects the argument that this governmental entity -- the Tribe -- is
completely immune from legal process. By addressing the substance of the tax
commission's claim for prospective injunctive relief against the Tribe, the
Court today recognizes that a tribe's  sovereign immunity from actions seeking
money damages does not necessarily extend to actions seeking equitable relief.
