OPINION
JUSTICE BLACKMUN delivered the opinion of the Court.
This case is yet another that presents a challenge to a
punitive damages award.
I
In 1981, Lemmie L. Ruffin, Jr., was an Alabama-licensed agent for petitioner
Pacific Mutual Life Insurance Company.  He also was a licensed agent for Union
Fidelity Life Insurance Company.  Pacific Mutual and Union are distinct and
nonaffiliated entities.  Union wrote group health insurance for municipalities.
Pacific Mutual did not.
Respondents Cleopatra Haslip, Cynthia Craig, Alma M. Calhoun, and Eddie Hargrove
were employees of Roosevelt City, an Alabama municipality.  Ruffin, presenting
himself as an agent of Pacific Mutual, solicited the city for both health and
life insurance for its employees.  The city was interested.  Ruffin gave the
city a single proposal for both coverages. The city approved and, in August
1981, Ruffin prepared separate applications for the city and its employees for
group health with Union and for individual life policies with Pacific Mutual.
This packaging of health insurance with life insurance, although from
different and unrelated insurers, was not unusual.  Indeed, it tended to boost
life insurance sales by minimizing the loss of customers who wished to have both
health and life protection.  The initial premium payments were taken by Ruffin
and submitted to the insurers with the applications.  Thus far, nothing is
claimed to have been out of line.  Respondents were among those with the health
coverage.
An arrangement was made for Union to send its billings for health premiums to
Ruffin at Pacific Mutual's Birmingham office.  Premium payments were to be
effected through payroll deductions.  The city clerk each month issued a check
for those premiums. The check was sent to Ruffin or picked up by him.  He,
however, did not remit to Union the premium payments received from the city;
instead, he misappropriated most of them.  In late 1981, when Union did not
receive payment, it sent notices of lapsed health coverage to respondents in
care of Ruffin and Patrick Lupia, Pacific Mutual's agent-in-charge of its
Birmingham office.  Those notices were not forwarded to respondents.
Although there is some evidence to the contrary, see Reply Brief for Petitioner
B1-B4, the trial court found, App. to Pet. for Cert. A2, that respondents did
not know that their health policies had been canceled.
II
Respondent Haslip was hospitalized on January 23, 1982.  She incurred hospital
and physician's charges.  Because the hospital could not confirm health
coverage, it required Haslip, upon her discharge, to make a payment upon her
bill.  Her physician, when he was not paid, placed her account with a collection
agency.  The agency obtained a judgment against Haslip, and her credit was
adversely affected.
In May 1982, respondents filed this suit, naming as defendants Pacific Mutual
(but not Union) and Ruffin, individually and as a proprietorship, in the Circuit
Court for Jefferson    County, Ala.  It was alleged that Ruffin
collected premiums but failed to remit them to the insurers so that respondents'
respective health insurance policies lapsed without their knowledge.  Damages
for fraud were claimed.  The case against Pacific Mutual was submitted to the
jury under a theory of respondeat superior.
Following the trial court's charge on liability, the jury was instructed that if
it determined there was liability for fraud, it could award punitive damages.
That part of the instructions is set forth in the margin. 1 Pacific Mutual made
no objection on the ground of lack of specificity in the instructions, and it
did not propose a more particularized charge.  No evidence was introduced as to
Pacific Mutual's financial worth.  The jury returned general verdicts for
respondents against Pacific Mutual and Ruffin in the following amounts:
Haslip:   2 $ 1,040,000 Calhoun:    $ 15,290
Craig:   $ 12,400 Hargrove:   $ 10,288
Judgments were entered accordingly.
On Pacific Mutual's appeal, the Supreme Court of Alabama, by a divided vote,
affirmed.  553 So. 2d 537 (1989). In addition to issues now now before us, the
court ruled that, while punitive damages are not recoverable in Alabama for
misrepresentation made innocently or by mistake, they are recoverable for deceit
or willful fraud, and that on the evidence in this case a jury could not have
concluded that Ruffin's misrepresentations were made either innocently or
mistakenly.  Id., at 540. The majority then specifically upheld the punitive
damages award. Id., at 543.
One Justice concurred in the result without opinion. 3 Ibid. Two Justices
dissented in part on the ground that the award of punitive damages violated
Pacific Mutual's due process rights under the Fourteenth Amendment. Id., at
544-545.
Pacific Mutual, but not Ruffin, then brought the case here.  It challenged
punitive damages in Alabama as the product of unbridled jury discretion and as
violative of its due process rights.  We stayed enforcement of the Haslip
judgment, 493 U.S. 1014 (1990), and then granted certiorari, 494 U.S. 1065  
(1990), to review the punitive damages procedures and award in the
light of the long-enduring debate about their propriety. 4
III
This Court and individual Justices thereof on a number of occasions in recent
years have expressed doubts about the constitutionality of certain punitive
damages awards.
In Browning-Ferris Industries of Vt., Inc. v. Kelco Disposal, Inc., 492 U.S. 257
(1989), all nine participating Members of the Court noted concern.  In that
case, punitive damages awarded on a state-law claim were challenged under the
Eighth and Fourteenth Amendments and on federal common-law grounds.  The
majority held that the Excessive Fines Clause of the Eighth Amendment did not
apply to a punitive damages award in a civil case between private parties; that
the claim of excessiveness under the Due Process Clause of the Fourteenth
Amendment had not been raised in either the District Court or the Court of
Appeals and therefore was not to be considered here; and that federal common law
did not provide a basis for disturbing the jury's punitive damages award. The
Court said:
"The parties agree that due process imposes some limits on jury awards
of punitive damages, and it is not disputed that a jury award may not
be upheld if it was the product of bias or passion, or if it was
reached in proceedings lacking the basic elements of fundamental
fairness. But petitioners make no claim that the proceedings
themselves were unfair, or that the jury was biased or
blinded by emotion or prejudice.  Instead, they seek further
due process protections, addressed directly to the size of the damages
award.  There is some authority in our opinions for the view that the
Due Process Clause places outer limits on the size of a civil damages
award made pursuant to a statutory scheme . . . but we have never
addressed the precise question presented here: whether due process
acts as a check on undue jury discretion to award punitive damages in
the absence of any express statutory limit. . . .  That inquiry must
await another day." Id., at 276-277.
Justice Brennan, joined by Justice Marshall, wrote separately:
"I join the Court's opinion on the understanding that it leaves the
door open for a holding that the Due Process Clause constrains the
imposition of punitive damages in civil cases brought by
private parties. . . .
"Without statutory (or at least common-law) standards for the
determination of how large an award of punitive damages is appropriate
in a given case, juries are left largely to themselves in making this
important, and potentially devastating, decision. . . .
"Since the Court correctly concludes that Browning-Ferris' challenge
based on the Due Process Clause is not properly before us, however, I
leave fuller discussion of these matters for another day." Id., at
280-282.
Justice O'Connor, joined by Justice Stevens, concurring in part and dissenting
in part, observed:
"Awards of punitive damages are skyrocketing. . . .
". . . I do . . . agree with the Court that no due process claims --
either procedural or substantive -- are properly presented in this
case, and that the award of punitive damages here should not be
overturned as a matter of federal common law. . . .  Moreover,
I share Justice Brennan's view, ante, at 280-282, that nothing in the
Court's opinion forecloses a due process challenge to awards of
punitive damages or the method by which they are imposed. . . ." Id.,
at 282-283.
In Bankers Life & Casualty Co. v. Crenshaw, 486 U.S. 71 (1988), a challenge to a
punitive damages award was made.  The Court, however, refused to reach claims
that the award violated the Due Process Clause and other provisions of the
Federal Constitution since those claims had not been raised and passed upon in
state court.  Id., at 76-80. Justice O'Connor, joined by Justice Scalia,
concurring in part and concurring in the judgment, said:
"Appellant has touched on a due process issue that I think is worthy
of the Court's attention in an appropriate case.  Mississippi law
gives juries discretion to award any amount of punitive damages in any
tort case in which a defendant acts with a certain mental state.  In
my view, because of the punitive character of such awards, there is
reason to think that this may violate the Due Process Clause.
"This due process question, serious as it is, should not be decided
today. . . .  I concur in the Court's judgment on this question and
would leave for another day the consideration of these issues." Id.,
at 87-89.
In Aetna Life Ins. Co. v. Lavoie, 475 U.S. 813 (1986), another case that came
here from the Supreme Court of Alabama, the appellant argued that the imposition
of punitivedamages was impermissible under the Eighth Amendment and violated the
Due Process Clause of the Fourteenth Amendment. The Court  
stated: "These arguments raise important issues which, in an appropriate
setting, must be resolved; however, our disposition of the recusal-for-bias
issue makes it unnecessary to reach them." Id., at 828-829.
See also Newport v. Fact Concerts, Inc., 453 U.S. 247, 270-271 (1981)
("The impact of such a windfall recovery is likely to be both unpredictable and,
at times, substantial . . ."); Electrical Workers v. Foust, 442 U.S. 42, 50-51
(1979); Gertz v. Robert Welch, Inc., 418 U.S. 323, 350 (1974) ("In most
jurisdictions jury discretion over the amounts awarded is limited only by the
gentle rule that they not be excessive. Consequently, juries assess punitive
damages in wholly unpredictable amounts bearing no necessary relation to the
actual harm caused"); Rosenbloom v. Metromedia, Inc., 403 U.S. 29, 82-84 (1971)
(Marshall, J., joined by Stewart, J., dissenting); Missouri Pacific R. Co. v.
Tucker, 230 U.S. 340, 351 (1913); Southwestern Telegraph & Telephone Co. v.
Danaher, 238 U.S. 482, 491 (1915); St. Louis, I. M. & S. R. Co. v. Williams, 251
U.S. 63, 67 (1919).
The constitutional status of punitive damages, therefore, is not an issue that
is new to this Court or unanticipated by it.  Challenges have been raised
before; for stated reasons, they have been rejected or deferred.  For example,
in Browning-Ferris, supra, we rejected the claim that punitive damages awarded
in a civil case could violate the Eighth Amendment and refused to consider the
tardily raised due process argument.  But the Fourteenth Amendment due process
challenge is here once again.
IV
Two preliminary and overlapping due process
arguments raised by Pacific Mutual deserve attention before we reach the
principal issue in controversy.  Did Ruffin act within the scope of his apparent
authority as an agent of Pacific Mutual?  If so, may Pacific Mutual be held
responsible for Ruffin's fraud on a theory of respondeat superior?
Pacific Mutual was held responsible for the acts of Ruffin.
The insurer mounts a challenge to this result on substantive due process
grounds, arguing that it was not shown that either it or its Birmingham manager
was aware that Ruffin was collecting premiums contrary to his contract;
that Pacific Mutual had no notice of the actions complained of prior to the
filing of the complaint in this litigation; that it did not authorize or ratify
Ruffin's conduct; that his contract with the company forbade his collecting any
premium other than the initial one submitted with an application; and that
Pacific Mutual was held liable and punished for unauthorized actions of its
agent for acts performed on behalf of another company.  Thus, it is said, when
punitive damages were imposed on Pacific Mutual, the focus for determining the
amount of those damages shifted from Ruffin, where it belonged, to Pacific
Mutual, and obviously and unfairly contributed to the amount of the punitive
damages and their disproportionality.  Ruffin was acting not to benefit Pacific
Mutual but for his own benefit, and to hold Pacific Mutual liable is
"beyond the point of fundamental fairness," Brief for Petitioner 29, embodied in
due process, id., at 32.  It is said that the burden of the liability comes to
rest on Pacific Mutual's other policyholders.
The jury found that Ruffin was acting as an employee of Pacific Mutual when he
defrauded respondents.  The Supreme Court of Alabama did not disturb that
finding.  There is no occasion for us to question it, for it is amply supported
by the record.  Ruffin had actual authority to sell Pacific Mutual life
insurance to respondents.  The insurer derived economic benefit from
those life insurance sales.  Ruffin's defalcations related to the life premiums
as well as to the health premiums. Thus, Pacific Mutual cannot plausibly claim
that Ruffin was acting wholly as an agent of Union when he defrauded
respondents.
The details of Ruffin's representation admit of no other conclusion.  He gave
respondents a single proposal -- not multiple ones -- for both life and health
insurance.  He used Pacific Mutual letterhead, which he was authorized to use on
Pacific Mutual business.  There was, however, no indication that Union was a
nonaffiliated company.  The trial court found that Ruffin "spoke only of Pacific
Mutual and indicated that Union Fidelity was a subsidiary of Pacific
Mutual." App. to Pet. for Cert. A2.  Pacific Mutual encouraged the packaging of
life and health insurance.  Ruffin worked exclusively out of a Pacific Mutual
branch office.  Each month he presented to the city clerk a single invoice on
Pacific Mutual letterhead for both life and health premiums.
Before the frauds in this case were effectuated, Pacific Mutual had received
notice that its agent Ruffin was engaged in a pattern of fraud identical to
those perpetrated against respondents.  There were complaints to the Birmingham
office about the absence of coverage purchased through Ruffin.  The Birmingham
manager was also advised of Ruffin's receipt of noninitial premiums made payable
to him, a practice in violation of company policy.
Alabama's common-law rule is that a corporation is
liable for both compensatory and punitive damages for the fraud of its employee
effected within the scope of his employment.  We cannot say that this does not
rationally advance the State's interest in minimizing fraud.  Alabama long has
applied this rule in the insurance context, for it has determined that an
insurer is more likely to prevent an agent's fraud if given sufficient financial
incentive to do so.  See British General Ins. Co. v. Simpson Sales Co., 265 Ala.
683, 688, 93 So. 2d 763, 768 (1957).
Imposing exemplary damages on the corporation when its agent commits
intentional fraud creates a strong incentive for vigilance by those in a
position "to guard substantially against the evil to be prevented." Louis Pizitz
Dry Goods Co. v. Yeldell, 274 U.S. 112, 116 (1927).   If an insurer were
liable for such damages only upon proof that it was at fault independently, it
would have an incentive to minimize oversight of its agents. Imposing
liability without independent fault deters fraud more than a less stringent
rule. It therefore rationally advances the State's goal.  We cannot say this is
a violation of Fourteenth Amendment due process.  See American Society
of Mechanical Engineers, Inc. v. Hydrolevel Corp., 456 U.S. 556 (1982);
Pizitz, 274 U.S., at 115. These and other cases in a broad range of civil and
criminal contexts make clear that  imposing such liability is not fundamentally
unfair and does not in itself violate the Due Process Clause.  See
Shevlin-Carpenter Co. v. Minnesota, 218 U.S. 57 (1910); United States v. Balint,
258 U.S. 250, 252 (1922); United States v. Park, 421 U.S. 658, 670 (1975).
We therefore readily
conclude that Ruffin was acting as an employee of Pacific Mutual when he
defrauded respondents, and that imposing liability upon Pacific Mutual for
Ruffin's fraud under the doctrine of respondeat superior does not, on the facts
here, violate Pacific Mutual's due process rights.
V
"
Punitive damages have long been a part of traditional
state tort law." Silkwood v. Kerr-McGee Corp., 464 U.S. 238, 255 (1984)
.Blackstone appears to have noted their use.  3 W. Blackstone,
Commentaries *137-*138.  See also Wilkes v. Wood, Lofft 1, 98 Eng. Rep. 489 (C.
P. 1763) (The Lord Chief Justice validating exemplary damages as compensation,
punishment, and deterrence).  Among the first reported American cases are Genay
v. Norris, 1 Bay 6 (S. C. 1784), and Coryell v. Colbaugh, 1 N. J. L. 77 (1791).
5
Under the traditional common-law approach, the amount of the punitive
award is initially determined by a jury instructed to consider the gravity of
the wrong and the need to deter similar wrongful conduct.  The jury's
determination is then reviewed by trial and appellate courts to ensure that it
is reasonable.
This Court more than once has approved the common-law method for assessing
punitive awards.  In Day v. Woodworth, 13 How. 363 (1852), a case decided before
the adoption of the Fourteenth Amendment, Justice Grier, writing for a
unanimous Court,  observed:
"It is a well-established principle of the common law, that in actions
of trespass and all actions on the case for torts, a jury may inflict
what are called exemplary, punitive, or vindictive damages upon a
defendant, having in view the enormity of his offence rather than the
measure of compensation to the plaintiff.  We are aware that the
propriety of this doctrine has been questioned by some writers; but if
repeated judicial decisions for more than a century are to be received
as the best exposition of what the law is, the question will not admit
of argument.  By the common as well as by statute law, men are often
punished for aggravated misconduct or lawless acts, by means of a
civil action, and the damages, inflicted by way of penalty or
punishment, given to the party injured.
". . .  This has been always left to the discretion of the jury, as
the degree of punishment to be thus inflicted must depend on
the peculiar circumstances of each case." Id., at 371.
In Missouri Pacific R. Co. v. Humes, 115 U.S. 512 (1885), the Court stated: "The
discretion of the jury in such cases is not controlled by any very definite
rules; yet the wisdom of allowing such additional damages to be given is
attested by the long continuance of the practice." Id., at 521. See also Barry
v. Edmunds, 116 U.S. 550, 565 (1886) ("For nothing is better settled than that,
in such cases as the present, and other actions for torts where no precise rule
of law fixes the recoverable damages, it is the peculiar function of the jury to
determine the amount by their verdict"); Minneapolis & St. Louis R. Co. v.
Beckwith, 129 U.S. 26, 36 (1889) ("The imposition of punitive or exemplary
damages in such cases cannot be opposed as in conflict with the prohibition
against the deprivation of property without due process of law. It is only one
mode of imposing a penalty for the violation of duty, and its propriety and
legality have been recognized . . . by repeated judicial decisions for
more than a century.  Its authorization by the law in question . . . cannot
therefore be justly assailed as infringing upon the Fourteenth Amendment of the
Constitution of the United States"); Standard Oil Co. v. Missouri, 224 U.S. 270,
285 (1912) ("Nor, from a Federal standpoint, is there any invalidity in the
judgment because there was no statute fixing a maximum penalty, no rule for
measuring damages, and no hearing"); Louis Pizitz Dry Goods Co. v. Yeldell,
supra (although the issue was raised in the briefs, the Court did not discuss
the claim); Memphis Community School Dist. v. Stachura, 477 U.S. 299, 306, n. 9
(1986). Recently, in Smith v. Wade, 461 U.S. 30 (1983), this Court affirmed the
assessment of punitive damages pursuant to 42 U. S. C. § 1983, where
the trial court used the common-law method for determining the amount of the
award. 6
So far as we have been able to determine,   every state and federal court
that has considered the question has ruled that the common-law method for
assessing punitive damages does not in itself violate due process.  But see New
Orleans, J. & G. N. R. Co. v. Hurst, 36 Miss. 660 (1859). In view of this
consistent history, we cannot say that the common-law method for assessing
punitive damages is so inherently unfair as to deny due process and be per se
unconstitutional.  "'If a thing has been practised for two hundred years by
common consent, it will need a strong case for the Fourteenth Amendment to
affect it.'" Sun Oil Co. v. Wortman, 486 U.S. 717, 730 (1988), quoting Jackman
v. Rosenbaum Co., 260 U.S. 22, 31 (1922). As the Court in Day v.
Woodworth, 13 How. 363 (1852), made clear, the common-law method for assessing
punitive damages was well established before the Fourteenth Amendment was
enacted.  Nothing in that Amendment's text or history indicates an
intention on the part of its drafters to overturn the prevailing method.  See
Burnham v. Superior Court of Cal., County of Marin, 495 U.S. 604 (1990); Snyder
v. Massachusetts, 291 U.S. 97, 111 (1934) ("The Fourteenth Amendment has not
displaced the procedure of the ages"). 7
This, however, is not the end of the
matter.  It would be just as inappropriate to say that, because punitive damages
have been recognized for so long, their imposition is never unconstitutional.
See Williams v. Illinois, 399 U.S. 235, 239 (1970) ("Neither the antiquity of a
practice nor the fact of steadfast legislative and judicial adherence to it
through the centuries insulates it from constitutional attack . . .").  We note
once again our concern about punitive damages that "run wild." Having said that,
we conclude that our task today is to determine whether the Due Process Clause
renders the punitive damages award in this case constitutionally unacceptable.
VI
One must concede that   unlimited jury
discretion -- or unlimited judicial discretion for that matter -- in the fixing
of punitive damages may invite extreme results that jar one's constitutional
sensibilities.  See Waters-Pierce Oil Co. v. Texas (No. 1), 212 U.S. 86, 111
(1909).8 We need not, and indeed we cannot, draw a mathematical bright line
between the constitutionally acceptable and the constitutionally unacceptable
that would fit every case.  We can say, however, that general concerns of
reasonableness and adequate guidance from the court when the case is tried to a
jury properly enter into the constitutional calculus.  With these concerns in
mind, we review the constitutionality of the punitive damages awarded in
this case.
We conclude that the punitive damages assessed by the jury against
Pacific Mutual were not violative of the Due Process Clause of the Fourteenth
Amendment. It is true, of course, that   under Alabama law, as under the
law of most States, punitive damages are imposed for purposes of retribution and
deterrence. Aetna Life Ins. Co. v. Lavoie, 470 So. 2d 1060, 1076 (Ala. 1984).
They have been described as quasi-criminal.  See Smith v. Wade, 461 U.S. 30, 59
(1983) (Rehnquist, J., dissenting).  But this in itself does not provide the
answer.  We move, then, to the points of specific attack.
1.  We have carefully reviewed the instructions to the jury.
By these instructions, see n. 1, supra, the trial court expressly described for
the jury the purpose of punitive damages, namely, "not to compensate the
plaintiff for any injury" but "to punish the defendant" and "for the
added purpose of protecting the public by  the defendant and others
from doing such wrong in the future." App. 105-106.  Any evidence of Pacific
Mutual's wealth was excluded from the trial in accord with Alabama law.  See
Southern Life & Health Ins. Co. v. Whitman, 358 So. 2d 1025, 1026-1027 (Ala.
1978).
To be sure, the instructions gave the jury significant discretion in its
determination of punitive damages. But that discretion was not unlimited.  It
was confined to deterrence and retribution, the state policy concerns sought to
be advanced.  And if punitive damages were to be awarded, the jury "must take
into consideration the character and the degree of the wrong as shown by the
evidence and necessity of preventing similar wrong." App. 106.  The instructions
thus enlightened the jury as to the punitive damages' nature and purpose,
identified the damages as punishment for civil wrongdoing of the kind involved,
and explained that their imposition was not compulsory.
These instructions, we believe,
reasonably accommodated Pacific Mutual's interest in rational decisionmaking and
Alabama's interest in meaningful individualized assessment of appropriate
deterrence and retribution.  The discretion allowed under Alabama law in
determining punitive damages is no greater than that pursued in many familiar
areas of the law as, for example, deciding "the best interests of the child," or
"reasonable care," or "due diligence," or appropriate compensation for pain and
suffering or mental anguish. 9   As long as the discretion is exercised
within reasonable constraints, due process is satisfied.  See, e. g., Schall v.
Martin, 467 U.S. 253, 279 (1984); Greenholtz v. Inmates of Nebraska Penal and
Correctional Complex, 442 U.S. 1, 16 (1979). See also McGautha v. California,
402 U.S. 183, 207 (1971).
2.  Before the trial in this case took place,
the Supreme Court of Alabama had established post-trial procedures for
scrutinizing punitive awards.  In Hammond v. Gadsden, 493 So. 2d 1374 (1986), it
stated that   trial courts are "to reflect in the record the reasons for
interfering with a jury verdict, or refusing to do so, on grounds of
excessiveness of the damages." Id., at 1379.Among the factors deemed
"appropriate for the trial court's consideration" are the "culpability of the
defendant's conduct," the "desirability of discouraging others from similar
conduct," the "impact upon the parties," and "other factors, such as the impact
on innocent third parties." Ibid. The Hammond test ensures meaningful and
adequate review by the trial court whenever a jury has fixed the punitive
damages.
3.  By its review of punitive awards, the Alabama
Supreme Court provides an additional check on the jury's or trial  
court's discretion.  It first undertakes a comparative analysis.  See, e. g.,
Aetna Life Ins. Co. v. Lavoie, 505 So. 2d 1050, 1053 (1987). It then
applies the detailed substantive standards it has developed for evaluating
punitive awards. 10 In particular, it makes its review to ensure that the award
does "not exceed an amount that will accomplish society's goals of punishment
and deterrence." Green Oil Co. v. Hornsby, 539 So. 2d 218, 222 (1989); Wilson v.
Dukona Corp., 547 So. 2d 70, 73 (1989). This appellate review makes certain that
the punitive damages are reasonable in their amount and rational in light of
their purpose to punish what has occurred and to deter its repetition.
Also before its ruling in the present case, the Supreme Court of Alabama had
elaborated and refined the Hammond criteria for determining whether a punitive
award is reasonably related to the goals of deterrence and retribution.  Hornsby
, 539 So. 2d, at 223-224; Central Alabama, 546 So. 2d, at 376-377. It was
announced that the following could be taken into consideration   in
determining whether the award was excessive or inadequate: (a) whether there is
a reasonable relationship between the punitive damages award and the harm likely
to result from the defendant's conduct as well as the harm that actually has
occurred; (b) the degree of reprehensibility of the defendant's conduct, the
duration of that conduct, the defendant's awareness, any concealment, and the
existence and frequency of similar past conduct; (c) the profitability
to the defendant of the wrongful conduct and the desirability of removing that
profit and of having the defendant also sustain a loss; (d) the "financial
position" of the defendant; (e) all the costs of litigation; (f) the imposition
of criminal sanctions on the defendant for its conduct, these to be taken in
mitigation; and (g) the existence of other civil awards against the defendant
for the same conduct, these also to be taken in mitigation.
The application of these
standards, we conclude, imposes a sufficiently definite and meaningful
constraint on the discretion of Alabama factfinders in awarding punitive
damages. The Alabama Supreme Court's postverdict review ensures that punitive
damages awards are not grossly out of proportion to the severity of the offense
and have some understandable relationship to compensatory damages. While
punitive damages in Alabama may embrace such factors as the heinousness of the
civil wrong, its effect upon the victim, the likelihood of its recurrence, and
the extent of the defendant's wrongful gain, the factfinder must be guided by
more than the defendant's net worth.  Alabama plaintiffs do not enjoy a windfall
because they have the good fortune to have a defendant with a deep pocket.
These standards have real effect
when applied by the Alabama Supreme Court to jury awards.  For examples of their
application in trial practice, see Hornsby, 539 So. 2d, at 219, and Williams v.
Ralph Collins Ford-Chrysler, Inc., 551 So. 2d 964, 966 (1989). And  
postverdict review by the Alabama Supreme Court has resulted in reduction of
punitive awards.  See, e. g., Wilson v. Dukona Corp., 547 So. 2d, at 74; United
Services Automobile Assn. v. Wade, 544 So. 2d 906, 917 (1989). The standards
provide for a rational relationship in determining whether a
particular award is greater than reasonably necessary to punish and deter.  They
surely are as specific as those adopted legislatively in Ohio Rev. Code  
Ann. § 2307.80(B) (Supp. 1989) and in Mont. Code Ann. § 27-1-221 (1989). 11
Pacific Mutual thus had the benefit of the full panoply of
Alabama's procedural protections.  The jury was adequately instructed.  The
trial court conducted a postverdict hearing that conformed with Hammond.  The
trial court specifically found that the conduct in question "evidenced
intentional malicious, gross, or oppressive fraud," App. to Pet. for Cert. A14,
and found the amount of the award to be reasonable in light of the importance of
discouraging insurers from similar conduct, id., at A15.  Pacific Mutual also
received the benefit of appropriate review by the Supreme Court of Alabama.  It
applied the Hammond standards and approved the verdict thereunder.  It brought
to bear all relevant factors recited in Hornsby.
We are aware that the punitive damages award in this case is more than 4 times
the amount of compensatory damages, is more than 200 times the out-of-pocket
expenses of respondent Haslip, see n. 2, supra, and, of course, is much in
excess of the fine that could be imposed for insurance fraud under Ala. Code §§
13A-5-11 and 13A-5-12(a) (1982), and Ala. Code §§ 27-1-12, 27-12-17, and
27-12-23 (1986).  Imprisonment, however, could also be required of an individual
in the criminal context.  While the monetary comparisons are wide and, indeed,
may be close to the line, the award here did not lack objective criteria.  We
conclude, after careful consideration, that in this case it does not
cross the line into the area of constitutional impropriety. 12 Accordingly,
Pacific Mutual's due process challenge must be, and is, rejected.
The judgment of the Supreme Court of Alabama is affirmed.
It is so ordered.
Justice Souter took no part in the consideration or decision of this case.
CONCUR BY: SCALIA; KENNEDY

JUSTICE SCALIA, concurring in the judgment.
In Browning-Ferris Industries of Vt., Inc. v. Kelco Disposal, Inc., 492 U.S. 257
(1989), we rejected the argument that the Eighth Amendment limits punitive
damages awards, but left for "another day" the question whether "undue jury
discretion to award punitive damages" violates the Due Process Clause of the
Fourteenth Amendment, id., at 277. That day has come, the due process point has
been thoroughly briefed and argued, but the Court chooses to decide only that
the jury discretion in the present case was not undue.  It says that Alabama's
particular procedures (at least as applied here) are not so "unreasonable" as to
"cross the line into the area of constitutional impropriety," ante this page.
This jury-like verdict provides no guidance as to whether any other procedures
are sufficiently "reasonable," and thus perpetuates the uncertainty
that our grant of certiorari in this case was intended to resolve.  Since it has
been the traditional practice of American courts to leave punitive damages
(where the evidence satisfies the legal requirements for imposing them)
to the discretion of the jury; and since in my view a process that accords with
such a tradition and does not violate the Bill of Rights necessarily constitutes
"due" process; I would approve the procedure challenged here without further
inquiry into its "fairness" or "reasonableness." I therefore concur only in the
judgment of the Court.
I
As the Court notes, punitive or "exemplary" damages have long been a part of
Anglo-American law.  They have always been controversial.  As recently as the
mid-19th century, treatise writers sparred over whether they even existed.  One
respected commentator, Professor Simon Greenleaf, argued that no doctrine of
authentically "punitive" damages could be found in the cases; he attempted to
explain judgments that ostensibly included punitive damages as in reality no
more than full compensation.  2 Law of Evidence 235, n. 2 (13th ed. 1876).  This
view was not widely shared.  In his influential treatise on the law of damages,
Theodore Sedgwick stated that "the rule" with respect to the "salutary doctrine"
of exemplary damages is that "where gross fraud, malice, or oppression appears,
the jury are not bound to adhere to the strict line of compensation, but may, by
a severer verdict, at once impose a punishment on the defendant and hold up an
example to the community." Measure of Damages 522 (4th ed. 1868).  The doctrine,
Sedgwick noted, "seems settled in England, and in the general jurisprudence of
this country," id., at 35.  See also G. Field, Law of Damages 66 (1876) ("
doctrine  seems to be sustained by at least a
great preponderance of authorities, both in England and this country"); J.
Sutherland, Law of Damages 721-722, 726-727, n. 1 (1882) ("The doctrine that
damages may be allowed for the purpose of example and punishment, in
addition to compensation, in certain cases, is held in nearly all the states of
the Union and in England." "Since the time of the controversy between Professor
Greenleaf and Mr. Sedgwick (1847) on this subject, a large majority of
the appellate courts in this country have followed the doctrine advocated by Mr.
Sedgwick . . .  ").  In Day v. Woodworth, 13 How. 363, 371 (1852), this Court
observed:
"It is a well-established principle of the common law, that in actions
of trespass and all actions on the case for torts, a jury may inflict
what are called exemplary, punitive, or vindictive damages upon a
defendant, having in view the enormity of his offence rather than the
measure of compensation to the plaintiff.  We are aware that the
propriety of this doctrine has been questioned by some writers; but if
repeated judicial decisions for more than a century are to be received
as the best exposition of what the law is, the question will not admit
of argument."
Even fierce opponents of the doctrine acknowledged that it was a firmly
established feature of American law.  Justice Foster of the New Hampshire
Supreme Court, in a lengthy decision disallowing punitive damages, called them
"a perversion of language and ideas so ancient and so common as seldom to
attract attention," Fay v. Parker, 53 N. H. 342, 343 (1873). The opinion
concluded, with more passion than even petitioners in the present case could
muster:
"Undoubtedly this pernicious doctrine has become so fixed in the law .
. . that it may be difficult to get rid of it.  But it is the business
of courts to deal with difficulties; and this heresy should be taken
in hand without favor, firmly and fearlessly.
". . .  Not reluctantly should we apply the knife to this deformity,
concerning which every true member of the sound and healthy
body of the law may well exclaim -- 'I have no need of thee.'" Id., at
397 (internal quotations omitted).
In 1868, therefore, when the Fourteenth Amendment was adopted, punitive damages
were undoubtedly an established part of the American common law of torts.  It is
just as clear that no particular procedures were deemed necessary to
circumscribe a jury's discretion regarding the award of such damages, or their
amount.  As this Court noted in Barry v. Edmunds, 116 U.S. 550, 565 (1886),
"nothing is better settled than that, in cases such as the present, and other
actions for torts where no precise rule of law fixes the recoverable damages, it
is the peculiar function of the jury to determine the amount by their verdict."
See also Missouri Pacific R. Co. v. Humes, 115 U.S. 512, 521 (1885) ("The
discretion of the jury in such cases is not controlled by any very definite
rules").  Commentators confirmed that the imposition of punitive damages was not
thought to require special procedural safeguards, other than -- at most -- some
review by the trial court.  "In cases proper for exemplary damages, it  
would seem impracticable to set any bounds to the discretion of the jury, though
in cases where the wrong done, though with malicious intent, is greatly
disproportioned to the amount of the verdict, the court may exercise the power
it always possesses to grant a new trial for excessive damages." Sedgwick, supra
, at 537-538, n. 1.  See also Field, supra, at 65 ("The amount of damages by way
of punishment or example, are necessarily largely within the discretion of the
jury; the only check . . . being the power of the court to set aside the verdict
where it is manifest that the jury were unduly influenced by passion, prejudice,
partiality, or corruption, or where it clearly evinces a mistake of the law or
the facts of the case"); Sutherland, supra, at 742 ("Whether 
shall be allowed, and their amount, are left to the discretion of the jury, but
subject to the power of the court to set aside the verdict if it is so excessive
that the court may infer that the jury have been influenced by passion or
prejudice" (footnote omitted)).
Although both the majority and the dissenting opinions today concede that the
common-law system for awarding punitive damages is firmly rooted in our history,
both reject the proposition that this is dispositive for due process purposes.
Ante, at 17-18; post, at 60.  I disagree.  In my view, it is not for the
Members of this Court to decide from time to time whether a process approved by
the legal traditions of our people is "due" process, nor do I believe such a
rootless analysis to be dictated by our precedents.
II
Determining whether common-law procedures for awarding punitive damages can deny
"due process of law" requires some inquiry into the meaning of that majestic
phrase.  Its first prominent use appears to have been in an English statute of
1354: "No man of what estate or condition that he be, shall be put out of land
or tenement, nor taken nor imprisoned, nor disinherited, nor put to death,
without being brought in answer by due process of the law." 28 Edw. III, ch. 3.
Although historical evidence suggests that the word "process" in this provision
referred to specific writs employed in the English courts (a usage retained in
the phrase "service of process"), see Jurow, Untimely Thoughts: A
Reconsideration of the Origins of Due Process of Law, 19 Am. J. Legal Hist. 265,
272-275 (1975), Sir Edward Coke had a different view.  In the second part of his
Institutes, see 2 Institutes 50 (5th ed. 1797), Coke equated the phrase "due
process of the law" in the 1354 statute with the phrase "Law of the Land" in
Chapter 29 of Magna Charta (Chapter 39 of the original Magna Charta signed by
King John at Runnymede in 1215), which provides: "No Freeman shall be taken, or
imprisoned, or be disseised of his Freehold, or Liberties, or free Customs, or
be outlawed, or exiled, or any otherwise destroyed; nor will we not  
pass upon him, nor condemn him, but by lawful Judgment of his Peers, or by the
Law of the Land." 9 Hen. III, ch. 29 (1225).  In Coke's view, the phrase "due
process of law" referred to the customary procedures to which freemen were
entitled by "the old law of England," 2 Institutes 50.
The American colonists were intimately familiar with Coke, see R. Mott,
Due Process of Law 87-90, 107 (1926); A. Howard, The Road from
Runnymede: Magna Carta and Constitutionalism in America 117-125 (1968), and
when, in their Constitutions, they widely adopted Magna Charta's "law of the
land" guarantee, see, e.g., N. C. Const., Art. XII (1776) ("No freeman ought to
be taken, imprisoned, or disseized of his freehold, liberties or privileges, or
outlawed, or exiled, or in any manner destroyed, or deprived of his life,
liberty, or property, but by the law of the land"); Mass. Const., Art. XII
(1780) ("No subject shall be arrested, imprisoned, despoiled, or deprived of his
property, immunities, or privileges, put out of the protection of the law,
exiled or deprived of his life, liberty, or estate, but by the judgment of his
peers, or the law of the land"), they almost certainly understood it as Coke
did.  It was thus as a supposed affirmation of Magna Charta according to Coke
that the First Congress (without recorded debate on the issue) included in the
proposed Fifth Amendment to the Federal Constitution the provision that "no
person shall be . . . deprived of life, liberty, or property,  without due
process of law." Early commentaries confirm this.  See, e. g. , 2 W. Blackstone,
Commentaries 133, nn. 11, 12 (S. Tucker ed. 1803); 2 J. Kent, Commentaries on
American Law 10 (1827); 3 J. Story, Commentaries on the Constitution of the
United States 661 (1833).
This Court did not engage in any detailed analysis of the Due Process Clause
until Murray's Lessee v. Hoboken Land & Improvement Co., 18 How. 272 (1856).
That case involved the validity of a federal statute authorizing the issuance of
distress warrants, a mechanism by which the Government collected debts without
providing the debtor notice or an opportunity for hearing.  The Court noted that
the words "due process of law" conveyed "the same meaning as the words 'by the
law of the land,' in Magna Charta" (referring to Coke's commentary and early
state constitutions), and that they were "a restraint on the legislature
as well as on the executive and judicial powers of the government," id., at 276.
This brought the Court to the critical question:
"To what principles, then, are we to resort to ascertain whether this
process enacted by congress, is due process?  To this the answer must
be twofold.  We must examine the constitution itself, to see whether
this process be in conflict with any of its provisions.  If not found
to be so, we must look to those settled usages and modes of proceeding
existing in the common and statute law of England, before the
emigration of our ancestors, and which are shown not to have been
unsuited to their civil and political condition by having been acted
on by them after the settlement of this country." Id., at 276-277.
Reviewing the history of the distress warrant, the Court concluded that the
procedure could not deny due process of law because "there has been no period,
since the establishment of the English monarchy, when there has not been, by the
law of the land, a summary method for the recovery of debts due to the crown,
and especially those due from receivers of the revenues," id., at 277, and these
summary procedures had been replicated, with minor modifications, in the laws of
the various American colonies and, after independence, the States, id.
, at 278-280.
Subsequent to the decision in Murray's Lessee, of course,  the Fourteenth
Amendment was adopted, adding another Due Process Clause to the Constitution.
The Court soon reaffirmed the teaching of Murray's Lessee under the new
provision:
"   A State cannot deprive a person of his property without
due process of law; but this does not necessarily imply that all
trials in the State courts affecting the property of persons must be
by jury.  This requirement of the Constitution is met if the trial is
had according to the settled course of judicial proceedings.  Due
process of law is process due according to the law of the
land." Walker v. Sauvinet, 92 U.S. 90, 92-93 (1876) (emphasis added;
citation omitted).
Not until Hurtado v. California, 110 U.S. 516 (1884), however, did the Court
significantly elaborate upon the historical test for due process advanced in
Murray's Lessee.  In that case, a man convicted of murder in California
contended that the State had denied him due process of law by omitting
grand-jury indictment.  Relying upon Murray's Lessee, he argued that because
that procedure was firmly rooted in the Anglo-American common-law tradition,  it
was an indispensable element of due process.  The Court disagreed.
"The real syllabus of  is,
that a process of law, which is not otherwise forbidden, must be taken
to be due process of law, if it can show the sanction of settled usage
both in England and in this country; but it by no means follows that
nothing else can be due process of law. The point in the case cited
arose in reference to a summary proceeding, questioned on that
account, as not due process of law. The answer was: however
exceptional it may be, as tested by definitions and principles of
ordinary procedure, nevertheless, this, in substance, has been
immemorially the actual law of the land, and, therefore, is due
process of law. But to hold that such a characteristic is essential to
due process of law, would be to deny every quality of the law but its
age, and to render it incapable of progress or improvement.  It would
be to stamp upon our jurisprudence the unchangeableness attributed to
the laws of the Medes and Persians." Hurtado v. California, supra, at
528-529.
Hurtado, then, clarified the proper role of history in a due process analysis:
If the government chooses to follow a historically approved procedure, it
necessarily provides due process, but if it chooses to depart from historical
practice, it does not necessarily deny due process.  The remaining
business, of course, was to develop a test for determining when a departure from
historical practice denies due process.  Hurtado provided scant guidance.  It
merely suggested that due process could be assessed in such cases by reference
to "those fundamental principles of liberty and justice which lie at the base of
all our civil and political institutions," 100 U.S., at 535 (emphasis added).
The concept of "fundamental justice" thus entered the due process lexicon not as
a description of what due process entails in general, but as a description of
what it entails when traditional procedures are dispensed with.  As
the Court reiterated in Twining v. New Jersey, 211 U.S. 78 (1908), "consistently
with the requirements of due process, no change in ancient procedure can be made
which disregards those fundamental principles, to be ascertained from time to
time by judicial action, which have relation to process of law and protect the
citizen in his private right, and guard him against the arbitrary action of
government." Id., at 101 (emphasis added).  See also Maxwell v. Dow, 176 U.S.
581, 602-605 (1900) (eight-member jury does not violate due process because it
is not "a denial of fundamental rights"). 1
Ownbey v. Morgan, 256 U.S. 94 (1921), provides a classic expression
of the Court's "settled usage" doctrine.  The Delaware statute challenged in
that case provided that a creditor could attach the in-state property of an
out-of-state debtor and recover against it without the debtor's being given an
opportunity to be heard unless he posted a bond.  This procedure could be traced
back to 18th-century London, and had been followed in Delaware and other States
since colonial days.  The Court acknowledged that in general the due process
guarantee "includes the right to be heard where liberty or property is at
stake in judicial proceedings." Id., at 111. But, it said, " procedure
customarily employed, long before the Revolution, in the commercial metropolis
of England, and generally adopted by the States as suited to their circumstances
and needs, cannot be deemed inconsistent with due process of law." Ibid.
"The due process clause does not impose upon the States a duty to
establish ideal systems for the administration of justice, with every
modern improvement and with provision against every possible hardship
that may befall. . . .
"However desirable it is that the old forms of procedure be improved
with the progress of time, it cannot rightly be said that the
Fourteenth Amendment furnishes a universal and self-executing remedy.
Its function is negative, not affirmative, and it carries no mandate
for particular measures of reform." Id., at 110-112.
See also Corn Exchange Bank v. Coler, 280 U.S. 218, 222-223 (1930).
By the time the Court decided Snyder v. Massachusetts, 291 U.S. 97 (1934), its
understanding of due process had shifted in a subtle but significant way.  That
case rejected a criminal defendant's claim that he had been denied due process
by being prevented from accompanying his jury on a visit to the scene of the
crime.  Writing for the Court, Justice Cardozo assumed that due process required
"fundamental justice," id.,   at 108, or "fairness," see id., at 116, in
all cases, and not merely when evaluating nontraditional procedures.  The
opinion's analysis began from the premise that "Massachusetts is free to
regulate the procedure of its courts in accordance with its own conception of
policy and fairness unless in so doing it offends some principle of justice so
rooted in the traditions and conscience of our people to be ranked as
fundamental." Id., at 105 (emphasis added).  Even so, however, only the
mode of analysis and not the content of the Due Process Clause had changed,
since in assessing whether some principle of "fundamental justice" had been
violated, the Court was willing to accord historical practice dispositive
weight.  Justice Cardozo noted that the practice of showing evidence to the jury
outside the presence of the defendant could be traced back to 18th-century
England, and had been widely adopted in the States.  "The Fourteenth Amendment,"
he wrote, "has not displaced the procedure of the ages." Id., at 111.
In the ensuing decades, however, the concept of "fundamental fairness" under the
Fourteenth Amendment became increasingly decoupled from the traditional
historical approach.  The principal mechanism for that development was the
incorporation within the Fourteenth Amendment of the Bill of Rights guarantees.
Although the Court resisted for some time the idea that "fundamental fairness"
necessarily included the protections of the Bill of Rights, see, e. g., Adamson
v. California, 332 U.S. 46, 54-58 (1947); Betts v. Brady, 316 U.S. 455, 462
(1942); Palko v. Connecticut, 302 U.S. 319, 323-325 (1937), it ultimately
incorporated virtually all of them, see, e. g., Malloy v. Hogan, 378 U.S. 1, 4-6
(1964); Gideon v. Wainwright, 372 U.S. 335, 341-345 (1963). Of
course, most of the procedural protections of the federal Bill of Rights simply
codified traditional common-law privileges and had been widely adopted by the
States.  See Robertson v. Baldwin, 165 U.S. 275, 281 (1897) ("The law is
perfectly well settled that the first ten amendments to the Constitution,
commonly known as the Bill of Rights, were not intended to lay down any novel
principles of government, but simply to embody certain guaranties and immunities
which we had inherited from our English ancestors"); T. Cooley, Constitutional
Limitations, ch. X (4th ed. 1878).  However, in the days when they were deemed
to apply only to the Federal Government and not to impose uniformity upon the
States, the Court had interpreted several provisions of the Bill of
Rights in a way that departed from their strict common-law meaning.  Thus, by
the mid-20th century there had come to be some considerable divergence between
historical practice followed by the States and the guarantees of the Bill of
Rights.  Gideon, supra, established that no matter how strong its historical
pedigree, a procedure prohibited by the Sixth Amendment (failure to appoint
counsel in certain criminal cases) violates "fundamental fairness" and must be
abandoned by the States. Id., at 342-345.
To say that unbroken historical usage cannot save a procedure that violates one
of the explicit procedural guarantees of the Bill of Rights (applicable through
the Fourteenth Amendment) is not necessarily to say that such usage cannot
demonstrate the procedure's compliance with the more general guarantee of "due
process." In principle, what is important enough to have been included within
the Bill of Rights has good claim to being an element of "fundamental fairness,"
whatever history might say; and as a practical matter, the invalidation of
traditional state practices achievable through the Bill of Rights is at least
limited to enumerated subjects.  But disregard of "the procedure of the ages"
for incorporation purposes has led to its disregard more generally.  There is
irony in this, since some of those who most ardently supported the incorporation
doctrine did so in the belief that it was a means of avoiding, rather than
producing, a subjective due-process jurisprudence.  See, for example, the
dissent of Justice Black, author of Gideon, from the Court's refusal to replace
"fundamental fairness" with the Bill of Rights as the sole test of due process:
"The 'natural law' formula which the Court uses to reach its
conclusion in this case should be abandoned as an incongruous
excrescence on our Constitution.  I believe that formula to be itself
a violation of our Constitution, in that it subtly conveys to courts,
at the expense of legislatures, ultimate power over public policies in
fields where no specific provision of the Constitution limits  
its legislative power." Adamson, supra, at 75 (Black, J., dissenting).
In any case, our due process opinions in recent decades have indiscriminately
applied balancing analysis to determine "fundamental fairness," without regard
to whether the procedure under challenge was (1) a traditional one and, if so,
(2) prohibited by the Bill of Rights.  See, e. g., Ake v. Oklahoma, 470 U.S. 68,
76-87 (1985); Lassiter v. Department of Social Services of Durham Cty., 452 U.S.
18, 24-25 (1981); Mathews v. Eldridge, 424 U.S. 319, 332-335 (1976). Even so,
however, very few cases have used the Due Process Clause, without the benefit of
an accompanying Bill of Rights guarantee, to strike down a procedure concededly
approved by traditional and continuing American practice.  Most notably, in
Sniadach v. Family Finance Corp. of Bay View, 395 U.S. 337, 340 (1969), over the
strenuous dissent of Justice Black, the Court declared unconstitutional the
garnishment of wages, saying that "the fact that a procedure would
pass muster under a feudal regime does not mean it gives necessary protection to
all property in its modern forms." And in Shaffer v. Heitner, 433 U.S. 186
(1977), the Court invalidated general quasi in rem jurisdiction, saying that
"'traditional notions of fair play and substantial justice' can be as readily
offended by the perpetuation of ancient forms that are no longer justified as by
the adoption of new procedures that are inconsistent with the basic values of
our constitutional heritage," id., at 212. Such cases, at least in
their broad pronouncements if not with respect to the particular provisions at
issue, 2 were in my view wrongly decided.
I might, for reasons of stare decisis, adhere to the principle that
these cases announce, except for the fact that our later cases give it nothing
but lipservice, and by their holdings reaffirm the view that traditional
practice (unless contrary to the Bill of Rights) is conclusive of "fundamental
fairness. " As I wrote last Term in Burnham v. Superior Court of Cal., County of
Marin, 495 U.S. 604, 623-625 (1990), nothing but the conclusiveness of history
can explain why jurisdiction based upon mere service of process within a State
-- either generally or on the precise facts of that case -- is "fundamentally
fair." Nor to my mind can anything else explain today's decision that a
punishment whose assessment and extent are committed entirely to the discretion
of the jury is "fundamentally fair." The Court relies upon two inconsequential
factors.  First, the "guidance" to the jury provided by the admonition that it
"take into consideration the character and the degree of the wrong as shown by
the evidence and necessity of preventing similar wrong." That is not guidance
but platitude.  Second, review of the amount of the verdict by the trial and
appellate courts, which are also governed by no discernible standard except what
they have done in other cases (unless, presumably, they announce a change).  But
it would surely not be considered "fair" (or in accordance with due process) to
follow a similar procedure outside of this historically approved context -- for
example,  to dispense with meaningful guidance concerning compensatory damages,
so long as whatever number the jury picks out of the air can be reduced by the
trial judge or on appeal.  I can conceive of no test relating to "fairness" in
the abstract that would approve this procedure, unless it is whether something
even more unfair could be imagined.  If the imposition of millions of dollars of
liability in this hodge-podge fashion fails to "jar  constitutional
sensibilities," ante, at 18, it is hard to say what would.
When the rationale of earlier cases (Sniadach and Shaffer) is contradicted by
later holdings -- and particularly when that rationale has no basis in
constitutional text and itself contradicts opinions never explicitly overruled
-- I think it has no valid stare decisis claim upon me.  Our holdings remain in
conflict, no matter which course I take.  I choose, then, to take the course
that accords with the language of the Constitution and with our interpretation
of it through the first half of this century.  I reject the principle, aptly
described and faithfully followed in Justice O'Connor's dissent, that a
traditional procedure of our society becomes unconstitutional whenever  
the Members of this Court "lose . . . confidence" in it, post,at 63.  And like
Justice Cardozo in Snyder,I affirm that no procedure firmly rooted in the
practices of our people can be so "fundamentally unfair" as to deny due process
of law.
Let me be clear about the scope of the principle I am applying.  It
does not say that every practice sanctioned by history is constitutional.  It
does not call into question, for example, the case of Williams v. IIlinois, 399
U.S. 235 (1970), relied upon by both the majority and the dissent, where we held
unconstitutional the centuries-old practice of permitting convicted criminals to
reduce their prison sentences by paying fines. The basis of that invalidation
was not denial of due process but denial to indigent prisoners of equal
protection of the laws.  The Equal Protection Clause and other provisions of the
Constitution, unlike the Due Process Clause, are not an explicit invocation of
the "law of the land," and might be thought to have some
counter-historicalcontent.  Moreover, the principle I apply today does not
reject our cases holding that procedures demanded by the Bill of Rights -- which
extends against the States only through the Due Process Clause -- must be
provided despite historical practice to the contrary.  Thus, it does not call
into question the proposition that punitive damages, despite their historical
sanction, can violate the First Amendment.  See, e. g., Gertz v. Robert Welch,
Inc., 418 U.S. 323, 349-350 (1974) (First Amendment prohibits awards of
punitive damages in certain defamation suits).
* * *
A harsh or unwise procedure is not necessarily unconstitutional, Corn Exchange
Bank, 280 U.S., at 223, just as the most sensible of procedures may well violate
the Constitution, see Maryland v. Craig, 497 U.S. 836, 860-861 (1990) (Scalia,
J., dissenting).  State legislatures and courts have the power to restrict or
abolish the common-law practice of punitive damages, and in recent years have
increasingly done so.  See, e. g., Alaska Stat. Ann. § 09.17.020 (Supp. 1990)
(punitive damages must be supported by "clear and convincing evidence"); Fla.
Stat. § 768.73(1)(a) (1989) (in specified classes of cases, punitive damages are
limited to three times the amount of compensatory damages); Va. Code Ann. §
8.01-38.1 (Supp. 1990) (punitive damages limited to $ 350,000).  It is through
those means -- State by State, and, at the federal level, by Congress -- that
the legal procedures affecting our citizens are improved.  Perhaps, when the
operation of that process has purged a historically approved practice from our
national life, the Due Process Clause would permit this Court to announce that
it is no longer in accord with the law of the land.  But punitive damages
assessed under common-law procedures are far from a fossil, or even an
endangered species.  They are (regrettably to many) vigorously alive.  To effect
their elimination may well be wise, but is not the role of the Due Process
Clause.  "Its function is negative, not affirmative, and it carries no mandate
for particular measures of reform." Ownbey, 256 U.S., at 112.
We have expended much ink upon the due-process implications of punitive  
damages, and the fact-specific nature of the Court's opinion guarantees that we
and other courts will expend much more in the years to come.  Since
jury-assessed punitive damages are a part of our living tradition that dates
back prior to 1868, I would end the suspense and categorically affirm
their validity.
JUSTICE KENNEDY, concurring in the judgment.
Historical acceptance of legal institutions serves to validate them not because
history provides the most convenient rule of decision but because we have
confidence that a long-accepted legal institution would not have survived if it
rested upon procedures found to be either irrational or unfair. For this reason,
Justice Scalia's historical approach to questions of procedural due process has
much to commend it.  I cannot say with the confidence maintained by Justice
Scalia, however, that widespread adherence to a historical practice always
forecloses further inquiry when a party challenges an ancient
institution or procedure as violative of due process.  But I agree that the
judgment of history should govern the outcome in the case before us.  Jury
determination of punitive damages has such long and principled recognition as a
central part of our system that no further evidence of its essential fairness or
rationality ought to be deemed necessary.
Our legal tradition is one of progress from fiat to rationality.  The evolution
of the jury illustrates this principle.  From the 13th or 14th century onward,
the verdict of the jury found gradual acceptance not as a matter of ipse dixit,
the basis for verdicts in trials by ordeal which the jury came to displace, but
instead because the verdict was based upon rational procedures.  See T.
Plucknett, A Concise History of the Common Law 120-131 (5th ed. 1956).  Elements
of whim and caprice do not predominate when the jury reaches a consensus based
upon arguments of counsel, the presentation of evidence, and instructions from
the trial judge, subject to review by the trial and appellate courts.  There is
a principled justification too in the composition of the jury, for its
representative character permits its verdicts to express the sense of the
community.
Some inconsistency of jury results can be expected for at least two
reasons.  First, the jury is empaneled to act as a decisionmaker in a single
case, not as a more permanent body.  As a necessary consequence of their
case-by-case existence, juries may tend to reach disparate outcomes based on the
same instructions.  Second, the generality of the instructions may contribute to
a certain lack of predictability.  The law encompasses standards phrased at
varying levels of generality.  As with other adjudicators, the jury may be
instructed to follow a rule of certain and specific content in order to yield
uniformity at the expense of considerations of fairness in the particular case;
or, as in this case, the standard can be more abstract and general to give the
adjudicator flexibility in resolving the dispute at hand.
These features of the jury system for assessing punitive damages discourage
uniform results, but nonuniformity cannot be equated with constitutional
infirmity.  As we have said in the capital sentencing context:
"It is not surprising that such collective judgments often are
difficult to explain.  But the inherent lack of predictability of jury
decisions does not justify their condemnation.  On the contrary, it is
the jury's function to make the difficult and uniquely human judgments
that defy codification and that 'build discretion, equity, and
flexibility into a legal system.'" McCleskey v. Kemp, 481 U.S. 279,
311 (1987) (quoting H. Kalven & H. Zeisel, The American Jury 498
(1966)).
This is not to say that every award of punitive damages by a jury will satisfy
constitutional norms.  A verdict returned by a biased or prejudiced jury no
doubt violates due process, and the extreme amount of an award compared to the
actual damage inflicted can be some evidence of bias or prejudice in an
appropriate case.  One must recognize the difficulty of making the showing
required to prevail on this theory.  Inmy view, however, it provides firmer
guidance and rests on sounder jurisprudential foundations than does the approach
espoused by the majority.  While seeming to approve the common-law method
for assessing punitive damages, ante,at 17-18, the majority nevertheless
undertakes a detailed examination of that method as applied in the case before
us, ante, at 18-24.  It is difficult to comprehend on what basis the majority
believes the common-law method might violate due process in a particular case
after it has approved that method as a general matter, and this tension in its
analysis now must be resolved in some later case.
In my view, the principles mentioned above and the usual protections given by
the laws of the particular State must suffice until judges or
legislators authorized to do so initiate system-wide change.  We do not have the
authority, as do judges in some of the States, to alter the rules of the common
law respecting the proper standard for awarding punitive damages and the
respective roles of the jury and the court in making that determination.  Were
we sitting as state-court judges, the size and recurring unpredictability of
punitive damages awards might be a convincing argument to reconsider those rules
or to urge a reexamination by the legislative authority.  We are confined in
this case, however, to interpreting the Constitution, and from this perspective
I agree that we must reject the arguments advanced by petitioner.
For these reasons I concur in the judgment of the Court.
DISSENT BY: O'CONNOR

JUSTICE O'CONNOR, dissenting.
Punitive damages are a powerful weapon.  Imposed wisely and with restrain, they
have the potential to advance legitimate state interests.  Imposed
indiscriminately, however, they have a devastating potential for harm.
Regrettably, common-law procedures for awarding punitive damages fall into the
latter category.  States routinely authorize civil juries to impose punitive
damages without providing them any meaningful instructions on how to do so.
Rarely is a jury told anything more specific than "do what you think best." See
Browning-Ferris Industries of Vt., Inc. v. Kelco Disposal, Inc., 492
U.S. 257, 281 (1989) (Brennan, J., concurring).
In my view, such instructions are so fraught with uncertainty that they
defy rational implementation.  Instead, they encourage inconsistent and
unpredictable results by inviting juries to rely on private beliefs and personal
predilections.  Juries are permitted to target unpopular defendants, penalize
unorthodox or controversial views, and redistribute wealth.  Multimillion dollar
losses are inflicted on a whim.  While I do not question the general legitimacy
of punitive damages, I see a strong need to provide juries with standards to
constrain their discretion so that they may exercise their power wisely, not
capriciously or maliciously.  The Constitution requires as much.
The Court today acknowledges that dangers may lurk, but holds that they did not
materialize in this case.  See ante, at 18-24.  They did materialize, however.
They always do, because such dangers are part and parcel of common-law punitive
damages procedures.  As is typical, the trial court's instructions in this case
provided no meaningful standards to guide the jury's decision to impose punitive
damages or to fix the amount.  Accordingly, these instructions were void for
vagueness. Even if the Court disagrees with me on this point, it should still
find that Pacific Mutual was denied procedural due process.  Whether or not the
jury instructions were so vague as to be unconstitutional, they plainly offered
less guidance than is required under the due process test set out in Mathews v.
Eldridge, 424 U.S. 319, 335 (1976). The most modest of procedural safeguards
would have made the process substantially more rational without impairing any
legitimate governmental interest.  The Court relies heavily on the State's
mechanism for postverdict judicial review, ante, at 20-23, but this is incapable
of curing a grant of standardless discretion to the jury.  Post hoc review tests
only the amount of the award, not the procedures by which that amount was
determined.  Alabama's common-law scheme is so lacking in fundamental fairness
that the propriety of any specific award is irrelevant.  Any award of punitive
damages rendered under these procedures, no matter how small the amount,
is constitutionally infirm.
Notwithstanding its recognition of serious due process concerns, the Court
upholds Alabama's punitive damages scheme.  Unfortunately, Alabama's punitive
damages scheme is indistinguishable from the common-law schemes employed by many
States.  The Court's holding will therefore substantially impede
punitive damages reforms.  Because I am concerned that the Court today sends the
wrong signal, I respectfully dissent.
I
Due process requires that a State provide meaningful standards to guide the
application of its laws.  See Kolender v. Lawson, 461 U.S. 352, 358 (1983). A
state law that lacks such standards is void for vagueness. The
void-for-vagueness doctrine applies not only to laws that proscribe conduct, but
also to laws that vest standardless discretion in the jury to fix a
penalty.  See United States v. Batchelder, 442 U.S. 114, 123 (1979). I have no
trouble concluding that Alabama's common-law scheme for imposing punitive
damages is void for vagueness.
A
Alabama's punitive damages scheme requires a jury to make two decisions: (1)
whether or not to impose punitive damages against the defendant, and (2) if so,
in what amount.  On the threshold question of whether or not to impose punitive
damages, the trial court instructed the jury as follows: "Imposition of punitive
damages is entirely discretionary with the jury, that means you don't have to
award it unless this jury feels that you should do so." App. 105-106 (emphasis
added).
This instruction is as vague as any I can imagine.  It speaks of discretion, but
suggests no criteria on which to base the exercise of that discretion.  Instead
of reminding the jury that its decision must rest on a factual or legal
predicate, the instruction suggests that the jury may do whatever it
"feels" like.  It thus invites individual jurors to rely upon emotion, bias, and
personal predilections of every sort.  As I read the instruction, it as much
permits a determination based upon the toss of a coin or the color of the
defendant's skin as upon a reasoned analysis of the offensive conduct.  This is
not "discretion in the legal sense of that term, but . . . mere will.  It is
purely arbitrary and acknowledges neither guidance nor restraint." Yick Wo v.
Hopkins, 118 U.S. 356, 366-367 (1886).
Giaccio v. Pennsylvania, 382 U.S. 399 (1966), offers a compelling analogy.  At
issue in Giaccio was a statute that left to the discretion of the jury whether
or not to assess costs against an acquitted criminal defendant.  The statute did
not set out any standards to guide the jury's determination.  Id., at 401. The
Court did not hesitate in striking down the statute on vagueness grounds.  Id.,
at 402. It reasoned that the utter lack of standards subjected acquitted
defendants to "arbitrary and discriminatory impositions of costs." Ibid. Justice
Black wrote for the Court:
"The Act, without imposing a single condition, limitation or
contingency on a jury which has acquitted a defendant simply says the
jurors 'shall determine, by their verdict, whether . . . the
defendant, shall pay the costs'. . . .  Certainly one of the basic
purposes of the Due Process Clause has always been to protect a person
against having the Government impose burdens upon him except in
accordance with the valid laws of the land.  Implicit in this
constitutional safeguard is the premise that the law must be one that
carries an understandable meaning with legal standards that courts
must enforce.  This state Act as written does not even begin to meet
this constitutional requirement." Id., at 403.
Alabama's common-law punitive damages scheme fails for precisely the same
reason.  It permits a jury to decide whether or not to impose punitive damages
"without imposing a single condition, limitation or contingency" on
the jury.  Ibid. The State offers no principled basis for distinguishing
those tortfeasors who should be liable for punitive damages from those who
should not be liable.  Instead, the State delegates this basic policy
matter to individual juries "for resolution on an ad hoc and subjective basis,
with the attendant dangers of arbitrary and discriminatory application." Grayned
v. City of Rockford, 408 U.S. 104, 108-109 (1972). As in Giaccio, this grant of
unchanneled, standardless discretion "does not even begin to meet the
constitutional requirement.  " Giaccio, 382 U.S., at 403.
The vagueness question is not even close.  This is not a case where a State has
ostensibly provided a standard to guide the jury's discretion.  Alabama, making
no pretensions whatsoever, gives civil juries complete, unfettered, and
unchanneled discretion to determine whether or not to impose punitive damages.
Not only that, the State tells the jury that it has complete discretion.  This
is a textbook example of the void-for-vagueness doctrine.  Alabama's common-law
scheme is unconstitutionally vague because the State entrusts the jury with
"such broad and unlimited power . . . that the jurors must make determinations
of the crucial issue upon their notions of what the law should be instead of
what it is." Ibid.
If anything, this is an easier case than Giaccio.  There, the Court struck down
on vagueness grounds a Pennsylvania law, under which the monetary penalty that
could be assessed by the jury against the defendant was limited to the costs of
prosecution -- in that case, $ 230.95.  Id., at 400. Our scrutiny under the
vagueness doctrine intensifies, however, in proportion to the severity of the
penalty imposed, see Hoffman Estates v. The Flipside, Hoffman Estates, Inc., 455
U.S. 489, 498-499 (1982), and Alabama's punitive damages scheme places no
substantive limits on the amount of a jury's award.  Pacific Mutual was found
liable for punitive damages of $ 840,000.  Ante, at 7, n. 2.  Even this
substantial sum pales by comparison to others handed down by juries in
the State.  See App. to Brief for Alabama Defense Lawyers Association as Amicus
Curiae 1a-19a (listing Alabama jury verdicts including punitive damages awards
as high as $ 10 million, $ 25 million, and $ 50 million).
It is no defense to vagueness that this case concerns a jury instruction rather
than a statute.  The constitutional prohibition against vagueness does not
disappear simply because the state law at issue originated in the courts rather
than the legislature.  "If anything, our scrutiny of awards made without the
benefit of a legislature's deliberation and guidance would be less indulgent
than our consideration of those that fall within statutory limits."
Browning-Ferris, 492 U.S., at 281 (Brennan, J., concurring).  See ante, at
20-22.  Moreover, the instruction in this case was not an aberration.  It
tracked virtually word for word Alabama's Pattern Jury Instruction on punitive
damages. See Alabama Pattern Jury Instructions, Civil 11.03 (1974).
Nor does it matter that punitive damages are imposed by civil juries
rather than criminal courts.  The vagueness doctrine is not limited to criminal
penalties.  See Hoffman Estates, supra; City of Mesquite v. Aladdin's Castle,
Inc., 455 U.S. 283 (1982). The Court in Giaccio expressly repudiated this
distinction:
"Both liberty and property are specifically protected by the
Fourteenth Amendment against any state deprivation which does not meet
the standards of due process, and this protection is not to be avoided
by the simple label a State chooses to fasten upon its conduct or its
statute.  So here this state Act whether labeled 'penal' or not must
meet the challenge that it is unconstitutionally vague." 382 U.S., at
402.
Here, as in Giaccio, the civil/criminal distinction is blurry.  Unlike
compensatory damages, which are purely civil in character, punitive damages are,
by definition, punishment. They operate as "private fines levied by
civil juries" to advance governmental objectives.  Gertz v. Robert Welch, Inc.,
418 U.S. 323, 350 (1974). Because Alabama permits juries to inflict these
potentially devastating penalties wholly at random, the State scheme is void for
vagueness.
B
If an Alabama jury determines that punitive damages are appropriate in a
particular case, it must then fix the amount.  Here, the trial court instructed
the jury: "Should you award punitive damages, in fixing the amount, you must
take into consideration the character and the degree of the wrong as shown by
the evidence and  necessity of preventing similar wrong." App. 106.
The Court concludes that this instruction sufficiently limited the jury's
discretion, ante, at 19-20, but I cannot share this conclusion.  Although the
instruction ostensibly provided some guidance, this appearance is deceiving.  As
Justice Brennan said of a similar instruction: "Guidance like this is scarcely
better than no guidance at all.  I do not suggest that the instruction itself
was in error; indeed, it appears to have been a correct statement of 
law. The point is,  rather, that the instruction reveals a deeper flaw: the fact
that punitive damages are imposed by juries guided by little more than an
admonition to do what they think is best." Browning-Ferris, supra, at 281
(concurring opinion).  I agree wholeheartedly.  Vague references to "the
character and the degree of the wrong" and the "necessity of preventing similar
wrong" do not assist a jury in making a reasoned decision; they are too
amorphous.  They restate the overarching principles of punitive damages awards
-- to punish and deter -- without adding meaning to these terms.  For example,
the trial court did not suggest what relation, if any, should exist between the
harm caused and the size of the award, nor how to measure the deterrent effect
of a particular award.  It provided no information to the jury about criminal
fines for comparable conduct or the range of punitive damages awards in similar
cases.  Nor did it identify the limitations dictated by retributive and
deterrent principles, or advise the jury to refrain from awarding more
than necessary to meet these objectives.  In short, the trial court's
instruction identified the ultimate destination,  but did not tell the jury how
to get there.  Due process may not require a detailed roadmap, but it certainly
requires directions of some sort.
Giaccio is instructive in this inquiry.  There, the State argued that even if
the cost-assessment statute was impermissibly vague as written, subsequent state
court decisions had adopted meaningful standards for implementing it.  The jury
in Giaccio was thus instructed that it could assess costs against the defendant
if it found that he was guilty of misconduct that, while not a criminal offense,
warranted a penalty.  See Giaccio, 382 U.S., at 404. This Court did not accept
that this nebulous instruction cured the statute's vagueness. "It may possibly
be that the trial court's charge comes nearer to giving a guide to the jury than
those that preceded it, but it still falls short of the kind of legal standard
due process requires." Ibid.
The trial court's instruction in this case fares no better.  In fact, the
minimal guidance it offered may well have pushed the jury further away from
reasoned decisionmaking.  Paraphrased slightly, the court's terse instruction
told the jury: "Think about how much you hate what the defendants did and teach
them a lesson." This is not the sort of instruction likely to produce a fair,
dispassionate verdict.  Like most common-law punitive damages instructions, this
one has "an open-ended, anything-goes quality that can too easily stoke . . .
the vindictive or sympathetic passions of juries." P. Huber, Liability: The
Legal Revolution and Its Consequences 118 (1988) (hereinafter Huber).  Our cases
attest to the wildly unpredictable results and glaring unfairness
that characterize common-law punitive damages procedures.  See infra, at 54-55.
One need not look far to see that these so-called standards provide no
guidance to Alabama juries.  Consider, for example, a recent Alabama case
involving a collision between a train and a tractor-trailer truck, which
resulted in the death of the driver of the truck.  Notwithstanding that the
truck pulled onto the tracks right in front of the train, thereby ignoring a
stop sign, three warning signs, and five speed bumps, the administratrix of
decedent's estate asked for $ 3 million in punitive damages. The jury, after
receiving instructions no more vague than those at issue here, awarded her $  15
million.  Whitt v. Burlington Northern R. Co., No. CV-85-311 (Cir. Ct. Ala.,
Aug. 23, 1988), aff'd conditionally, 575 So. 2d 1011 (1990) (remitting award to
$ 5 million), stay granted, No. A-408 (90-1250) (Dec. 5, 1990) (Kennedy, J.,
Circuit Justice).
That Alabama's "standards" in fact provide no guidance whatsoever was
illustrated quite dramatically by Alabama Supreme Court Justice Houston in his
concurring opinion in Charter Hospital of Mobile, Inc. v. Weinberg, 558 So. 2d
909, 916 (Ala. 1990). He pointed to two cases involving substantially the same
misconduct and jury instructions, but having very different results: Washington
Nat. Ins. Co. v. Strickland, 491 So. 2d 872 (Ala. 1985), and Land & Associates,
Inc. v. Simmons, 562 So. 2d 140 (Ala. 1989). In both cases, an  
insurance agent misrepresented to a prospective insured that coverage would
begin as soon as the insured paid the first premium when, in reality, the agent
should have known that coverage was conditioned upon a medical examination that
the insured was unlikely to pass.  See Strickland, supra, at 873, 877; Simmons,
supra, at 142. In one case, the jury handed down a punitive damages award of
approximately $ 21,000 -- 15 1/2 times the compensatory damages. See Strickland,
supra, at 874. In the other case, the jury penalized substantially the same
conduct with a punitive damages award of $ 2,490,000 -- 249 times the
compensatory award.  See Simmons, supra, at 151 (Houston, J., concurring
specially).  These vastly disparate results demonstrate that, under
Alabama's common-law scheme, any case-to-case consistency among verdicts is
purely fortuitous.
This is not a case where more precise standards are either impossible or
impractical.  See Kolender, 461 U.S., at 361. Just the opposite.  The Alabama
Supreme Court has already formulated a list of seven factors that it considers
relevant to the size of a punitive damages award:
"'(1) Punitive damages should bear a reasonable relationship to the
harm that is likely to occur from the defendant's conduct as well as
to the harm that actually has occurred.  If the actual or likely harm
is slight, the damages should be relatively small.  If grievous, the
damages should be much greater.
"'(2) The degree of reprehensibility of the defendant's conduct should
be considered.  The duration of this conduct, the degree of the
defendant's awareness of any hazard which his conduct has caused or is
likely to cause, and any concealment or "cover-up" of that hazard, and
the existence and frequency of similar past conduct should all be
relevant in determining this degree of reprehensibility.
"'(3) If the wrongful conduct was profitable to the defendant, the
punitive damages should remove the profit and should be in excess of
the profit, so that the defendant recognizes a loss.
"'(4) The financial position of the defendant would be relevant.
"'(5) All the costs of litigation should be included, so as to
encourage plaintiffs to bring wrongdoers to trial.
"'(6) If criminal sanctions have been imposed on the defendant for
this conduct, this should be taken into account in
mitigation of the punitive damages award.
"'(7) If there have been other civil actions against the same
defendant, based on the same conduct, this should be taken into
account in mitigation of the punitive damages award.'" Green
Oil Co. v. Hornsby, 539 So. 2d 218, 223-224 (1989), quoting Aetna Life
Ins. Co. v. Lavoie, 505 So. 2d 1050, 1062 (Ala. 1987) (Houston, J.,
concurring specially).
In my view, these standards -- the "Green Oil factors" -- could assist juries to
make fair, rational decisions.  Unfortunately, Alabama courts do not give the
Green Oil factors to the jury.  See 539 So. 2d, at 224 (Maddox, J., concurring
specially).  Instead, the jury has standardless discretion to impose
punitive damages whenever and in whatever amount it wants.  The Green Oil
factors play a role only after the jury has rendered its verdict.  The trial
court and other reviewing courts may -- but are not required to -- take these
factors into consideration in determining whether a punitive damages award is
excessive. Id., at 223.
Obviously, this post hoc application of the Green Oil factors does not cure the
vagueness of the jury instructions.  Cf.  Baggett v. Bullitt, 377 U.S. 360, 373
(1964) ("Judicial safeguards do not neutralize the vice of a vague law").  See
also Roberts v. United States Jaycees, 468 U.S. 609, 629 (1984). As respondents
candidly admit, judicial review in Alabama is limited to the amount of the
award.  The void-for-vaguenessdoctrine, on the other hand, is concerned with the
procedures by which the amount is determined.  After-the-factreview of the
amount in no way diminishes the fact that the State entrusts its juries with
standardless discretion.  It thus does not matter that the amount settled upon
by the jury might have been permissible under a rational system.  Even a wholly
irrational process may, on occasion, stumble upon a fair result.  What is
crucial is that the existing system is not rational.  "Procedural due process
rules are shaped by the risk of error inherent in the truth-finding process as
applied to the generality of cases, not the rare exceptions." Mathews v.
Eldridge, 424 U.S., at 344. The state court justice who devised the Green Oil
factors, Justice Houston, has recognized this.  Addressing a vagueness challenge
to the State's punitive damages procedures, he wrote: "We have attempted
to deal with the issue of the reliability of punitive damages assessments by
post-trial review only.  That attempt does not really address the issue."
Charter Hospital, 558 So. 2d, at 915 (opinion concurring specially) (emphasis
added; citations omitted).
II
For the reasons stated above, I would hold that Alabama's common-law punitive
damages scheme is void for vagueness. But the Court need not agree with me on
this point in order to conclude that Pacific Mutual was denied procedural due
process.  Whether or not the Court agrees that the jury instructions were so
vague as to be unconstitutional, there can be no doubt but that they offered
substantially less guidance than is possible.  Applying the test of procedural
due process set out in Mathews v. Eldridge, supra, more guidance was required.
Modest safeguards would make the process significantly more rational without
impairing any legitimate governmental interest.
A
In Mathews v. Eldridge, supra, at 334, we recognized that "'"due process,"
unlike some legal rules, is not a technical conception with a fixed content
unrelated to time, place and circumstances.  Cafeteria Workers v. McElroy, 367
U.S. 886, 895 (1961).'" "Due process is flexible and calls for such procedural
protections as the particular situation demands." Morrissey v. Brewer, 408 U.S.
471, 481 (1972). Accordingly, Mathews described a sliding-scale
test for determining whether a particular set of procedures was
constitutionally adequate.  We look at three factors: (1) the private interest
at stake; (2) the risk that existing procedures will wrongly impair this private
interest, and the likelihood that additional procedural safeguards can effect a
cure; and (3) the governmental interest in avoiding these additional procedures.
Mathews, supra, at 335.
Applying the Mathews test to Alabama's common-law punitive damages
scheme, it is clear that the state procedures deprive defendants of property
without due process of law. The private property interest at stake is enormous.
Without imposing any legislative or common-law limits, Alabama authorizes juries
to levy civil fines ranging from zero to tens of millions of dollars.  Indeed, a
jury would not exceed its discretion under state law by imposing an award of
punitive damages that was deliberately calculated to bankrupt the defendant.
Unlike compensatory damages, which are tied to an actual injury, there is no
objective standard that limits the amount of punitive damages. Consequently,
"'the impact of these windfall recoveries is unpredictable and potentially
substantial.'" Bankers Life & Casualty Co. v. Crenshaw, 486 U.S. 71, 87 (1988)
(O'Connor, J., concurring in part and concurring in judgment), quoting
Electrical Workers v. Foust, 442 U.S. 42, 50 (1979).
Compounding the problem, punitive damages are quasi-criminal punishment.  Unlike
compensatory damages, which serve to allocate an existing loss between two
parties, punitive damages are specifically designed to exact punishment in
excess of actual harm to make clear that the defendant's misconduct was
especially reprehensible.  Hence, there is a stigma attached to an award of
punitive damages that does not accompany a purely compensatory award.  The
punitive character of punitive damages means that there is more than just money
at stake.  This factor militates in favor of strong procedural safeguards.
The second Mathews prong focuses on the fairness and reliability of existing
procedures.  This is a question we have spoken to before.  Over the last 20
years, the Court has repeatedly criticized common-law punitive damages
procedures on the ground that they invite discriminatory and otherwise
illegitimate awards.  E. g., Gertz, 418 U.S., at 350 (common-law procedures
leave juries "free to use their discretion selectively to punish expressions of
unpopular views"); Electrical Workers, supra, at 50-51, and n. 14
("Punitive damages may be employed to punish unpopular defendants"); Rosenbloom
v. Metromedia, Inc., 403 U.S. 29, 84 (1971) (Marshall, J., dissenting) ("This
discretion allows juries to penalize heavily the unorthodox and the unpopular
and exact little from others"); Smith v. Wade, 461 U.S. 30, 59 (1983)
(Rehnquist, J., dissenting) ("Punitive damages are frequently based upon the
caprice and prejudice of jurors").  For this reason, the Court has forbidden the
award of punitive damages in certain defamation suits brought by private
plaintiffs, Gertz, supra, at 349-350, and in unfair representation
suits brought against labor unions under the Railway Labor Act, Electrical
Workers, supra, at 52.
Although our cases have not squarely addressed the due process question before
us today, see Browning-Ferris, 492 U.S., at 276-277, we have strongly hinted at
the answer.  See ante, at 9-12.  Justice Brennan and Justice Marshall joined the
Court's opinion in Browning-Ferris, but wrote separately to express their
"understanding that it leaves the door open for a holding that the Due Process
Clause constrains the imposition of punitive damages in civil cases brought by
private parties." 492 U.S., at 280 (Brennan, J., concurring).  In a
separate opinion that Justice Stevens joined, I voiced strong concerns
"regarding the vagueness and procedural due process problems presented by juries
given unbridled discretion to impose punitive damages." Id., at 283 (opinion
concurring in part and dissenting in part).  This echoed my earlier statement,
with which Justice Scalia joined, in Bankers Life, supra, at 88: "This grant of
wholly standardless discretion to determine the severity of punishment appears
inconsistent with due process" (opinion concurring in part and concurring in
judgment).
As explained above, see supra, at 52-53, Alabama's grant of standardless
discretion to juries is not remedied by post hoc judicial review.  At best, this
mechanism tests whether the award is grossly excessive. This is an important
substantive due process concern, but our focus here is on the
requirements of procedural due process.  Cf.  Santosky v. Kramer, 455 U.S. 745,
757 (1982) ("Retrospective case-by-case review cannot preserve fundamental
fairness when a class of proceedings is governed by a constitutionally defective
evidentiary standard").
Even if judicial review of award amounts could potentially minimize the evils of
standardless discretion, Alabama's review procedure is not up to the task.  For
one thing, Alabama courts cannot review whether a jury properly applied
permissible factors, because juries are not told which factors are permissible
and which are not.  See Wheeler, The Constitutional Case for Reforming Punitive
Damages Procedures, 69 Va. L. Rev. 269, 290 (1983) (hereinafter Wheeler).
Making effective review even more unlikely, the primary component of Alabama's
review mechanism is deference.  The State Supreme Court insists that a jury's
award of punitive damages carries a "presumption of correctness" that a
defendant must overcome before remittitur is appropriate.  Green Oil, 539 So.
2d, at 222, 224. Reviewing courts are thus required to uphold the jury's
exercise of unbridled, unchanneled, standardless discretion unless the amount
happened upon by the jury cannot be reconciled with even the most generous
application of the Green Oil factors.
That is precisely what happened here.  When Pacific Mutual challenged the
State's procedures governing awards of punitive damages, the trial court simply
deferred to the jury.  The judge noted that he "would in all
likelihood have rendered a lesser amount," App. to Pet. for Cert. A-15, but that
the verdict was not excessive or unfair because "the jury was composed of male
and female, white and black and . . . acted conscientiously throughout the
trial." Ibid. Relying on the trial judge's refusal to disturb the verdict, the
State Supreme Court afforded it a double dose of deference, stating that "jury
verdicts are presumed correct, and that presumption is strengthened when
the presiding judge refuses to grant a new trial." 553 So. 2d 537, 543 (1989).
This strong deference is troubling given that the Alabama Supreme Court has
explicitly acknowledged that its current procedures provide for "'unguided
discretion,'" Green Oil, 539 So. 2d, at 222, and in no way dictate a rational
jury verdict: "'The current system furnishes virtually no yardstick for
measuring the amount of the award over against the purpose of the award.'" Ibid.
, quoting Ridout's-Brown Service, Inc. v. Holloway, 397 So. 2d 125, 127-128
(Ala. 1981) (Jones, J., concurring specially).  "It is possible for a jury to
hear the evidence in the case, make findings of fact, correctly apply the law,
and still, albeit unwittingly, assess damages that bear no reasonable
relationship to the accomplishment of  goals." 539
So. 2d, at 222. Thus, the State Supreme Court recognizes that its common-law
procedures produce irrational results, yet insists on deferring to these
results.  Blind adherence to the product of recognized procedural infirmity is
not judicial review as I understand it.  It is an empty exercise in
rationalization that creates only the appearance of evenhanded justice.
Crucial to Mathews' second prong, the procedural infirmities here are easily
remedied.  The Alabama Supreme Court has already given its approval to the Green
Oil factors.  By giving these factors to juries, the State would be providing
them with some specific standards to guide their discretion.  This would
substantially enhance the fairness and rationality of the State's punitive
damages system.  Other procedural safeguards might prove equally effective.  For
example, state legislatures could establish fixed monetary limits for awards of
punitive damages for particular kinds of conduct.  So long as the legislatively
determined ranges are sufficiently narrow, they could function as meaningful
constraints on jury discretion while at the same time permitting juries to
render individualized verdicts.
Another possibility advocated by several commentators, see ante, at 23,
n. 11; Wheeler 300-301, is that States could bifurcate trials into liability and
punitive damages stages.  At the punitive damages stage, clear and convincing
evidence that the defendant acted with the requisite culpability would be
required. This would serve two goals.  On a practical level,  the
clear-and-convincing-evidence requirement would constrain the jury's discretion,
limiting punitive damages to the more egregious cases.  This would also permit
closer scrutiny of the evidence by trial judges and reviewing courts.  See
Ellis, Punitive Damages, Due Process, and the Jury, 40 Ala. L. Rev. 975, 995-996
(1989). On a symbolic level, the higher evidentiary standard would signal to the
jury that it should have a high level of confidence in its factual findings
before imposing punitive damages. Id., at 995; Wheeler 297-298.  Any
of these rudimentary modifications would afford more meaningful guidance to
juries, thereby lessening the chance of arbitrary and discriminatory awards,
without impairing the State's legitimate interests in punishment and deterrence.
Given the existence of several equally acceptable methods, concerns of
federalism and judicial restraint counsel that this Court should not legislate
to the States which particular method to adopt.  I would thus leave it to
individual States to decide what method is most consistent with their
objectives.
The final Mathews factor asks whether the State has a legitimate interest in
preserving standardless jury discretion that is so compelling as to render even
modest procedural reforms unduly burdensome.  The Court effectively answered
this question in Gertz, 418 U.S., at 349, announcing that "the States have no
substantial interest in securing for plaintiffs . . . gratuitous awards of money
damages far in excess of actual injury." (Emphasis added.)
Respondents do not give up easily.  They point out that the State has a
substantial interest in deterring wrongful conduct and draw from this a peculiar
argument.  They contend that, by making jury awards more predictable,
procedural safeguards will tend to diminish the deterrent effect of punitive
damages. If award amounts are predictable, they argue, corporations will not
avoid wrongdoing; instead, they will merely calculate the probability of a
punitive damages award and factor it in as a cost of doing business.
Accordingly, to best advance the State's interest in deterrence, juries must be
given unbridled discretion to render awards that are wildly unpredictable.
This argument goes too far.  While the State has a legitimate interest in
avoiding rigid strictures so that a jury may tailor its award to specific facts,
the Due Process Clause does not permit a State to classify arbitrariness as a
virtue.  Indeed, the point of due process -- of the law in general -- is to
allow citizens to order their behavior.  A State can have no legitimate interest
in deliberately making the law so arbitrary that citizens will be unable to
avoid punishment based solely upon bias or whim.  The procedural  
reforms suggested here in no way intrude on the jury's ability to exercise
reasoned discretion, nor do they preclude flexible decisionmaking.  Due process
requires only that a jury be given a measurable degree of guidance, not that it
be straight-jacketed into performing a particular calculus.
Similarly, the suggested procedural safeguards do not impair the State's
punishment objectives.  Admittedly, the State has a strong interest in punishing
wrongdoers, but it has no legitimate interest in maintaining in pristine form a
common-law system that imposes disproportionate punishment and that subjects
defendants guilty of similar misconduct to wholly different punishments.  Due
process requires, at some level, that punishment be commensurate with the
wrongful conduct.  See Solem v. Helm, 463 U.S. 277, 284-290 (1983); id., at 311,
n. 3 (Burger, C. J., dissenting).  The State can therefore have no valid
objection to procedural measures that merely ensure that punitive
damages awards are based on some factual or legal predicate, rather than
the personal predilections and whims of individual jurors.
B
In his concurrence, Justice Scalia offers a very different notion of what due
process requires.  He argues that a practice with a long historical pedigree is
immune to reexamination.  Ante, at 38.  The Court properly rejects this
argument.  Ante, at 18.  A static notion of due process is flatly inconsistent
with Mathews, 424 U.S., at 334-335, in which this Court announced that the
requirements of the Due Process Clause are "'flexible'" and may vary with
"'time, place and circumstances.'" We have repeatedly relied on the Mathews
analysis, and our recent cases leave no doubt as to its continued vitality.
See, e. g., Washington v. Harper, 494 U.S. 210, 229 (1990); Brock v. Roadway
Express, Inc., 481 U.S. 252, 261-262 (1987); Walters v. National Assn. of
Radiation Survivors, 473 U.S. 305, 320-321 (1985); Cleveland Bd. of Ed. v.
Loudermill, 470 U.S. 532, 542-543 (1985); Ake v. Oklahoma, 470 U.S. 68, 77
(1985); Schall v. Martin, 467 U.S. 253, 274 (1984).
Due process is not a fixed notion.  Procedural rules, "even ancient ones, must
satisfy contemporary notions of due process." Burnham v. Superior Court of Cal.,
County of Marin, 495 U.S. 604, 630 (1990) (Brennan, J., concurring in judgment).
Although history creates a strong presumption of continued validity, "the Court
has the authority under the  Amendment to examine even traditionally
accepted procedures and declare them invalid." Id., at 628 (White, J.,
concurring in part and concurring in judgment), citing Shaffer v. Heitner, 433
U.S. 186 (1977).
The Court's decision in Williams v. Illinois, 399 U.S. 235 (1970), is also
instructive.  In Williams, the Court invalidated on equal protection grounds the
time-honored practice of extending prison terms beyond the statutory maximum
when a defendant was unable to pay a fine or court costs.  The Court's
language bears repeating:
"Neither the antiquity of a practice nor the fact of steadfast
legislative and judicial adherence to it through the centuries
insulates it from constitutional attack. . . .
"The need to be open to reassessment of ancient practices other than
those explicitly mandated by the Constitution is illustrated by the
present case since the greatly increased use of fines as a criminal
sanction has made nonpayment a major cause of incarceration
in this country." Id., at 239-240.
Punitive damages are similarly ripe for reevaluation.  In the past, such awards
"merited scant attention" because they were "rarely assessed and likely to be
small in amount." Ellis, Fairness and Efficiency in the Law of Punitive Damages,
56 S. Cal. L. Rev. 1, 2 (1982). When awarded, they were reserved for
the most reprehensible, outrageous, or insulting acts.  See F. Pollock, Law of
Torts (1887); Huber 119.  Even then, they came at a time when compensatory
damages were not available for pain, humiliation, and other forms of intangible
injury.  Punitive damages filled this gap.  See K. Redden, Punitive Damages §
2.3(A) (1980); Note, Exemplary Damages in the Law of Torts, 70 Harv. L. Rev.
517, 519-520 (1957).
Recent years, however, have witnessed an explosion in the frequency and size of
punitive damages awards.  See RAND Institute for Civil Justice, M. Peterson, S.
Sarma, & M. Shanley, Punitive Damages -- Empirical Findings iii (1987)
(hereinafter RAND).  A recent study by the RAND Corporation found that punitive
damages were assessed against one of every ten defendants who were found liable
for compensatory damages in California.  Id., at viii.  The amounts can be
staggering.  Within nine months of our decision in Browning-Ferris, there were
no fewer than six punitive damages awards of more than $ 20 million.  Crovitz,
Absurd Punitive Damages Also "Mock" Due Process, Wall St. Journal, Mar.
14, 1990, p. A19, col. 3.  Medians as well as averages are skyrocketing, meaning
that even routine awards are growing in size.  RAND vi, ix, 65.  The amounts
"seem to be limited only by the ability of lawyers to string zeros together in
drafting a complaint." Oki America, Inc. v. Microtech Int'l, Inc., 872 F. 2d.
312, 315 (CA9 1989) (Kozinski, J., concurring).
Much of this is attributable to changes in the law.  For 200 years, recovery for
breach of contract has been limited to compensatory damages. In recent years,
however, a growing number of States have permitted recovery of punitive damages
where a contract is breached or repudiated in bad faith.  See, e.g., Seaman's
Direct Buying Serv., Inc. v. Standard Oil Co., 36 Cal. 3d 752, 686 P. 2d 1158
(1984). Unheard of only 30 years ago, bad faith contract actions now account for
a substantial percentage of all punitive damages awards.  See RAND iv.  Other
significant legal developments include the advent of product liability and mass
tort litigation.  "As recently as a decade ago, the largest award of punitive
damages affirmed by an appellate court in a products liability case was $
250,000. . . .  Since then, awards more than 30 times as high have been
sustained on appeal." Browning-Ferris, 492 U.S., at 282 (O'Connor, J.,
concurring in part and dissenting in part).  "Today, hardly a month goes by
without a multimillion-dollar punitive damages verdict in a product liability
case." Wheeler, A Proposal for Further Common Law Development of the Use of
Punitive Damages in Modern Product Liability Litigation, 40 Ala. L. Rev. 919
(1989).
As in Williams, the time has come to reassess the constitutionality of a
time-honored practice.  The explosion in the frequency and size of punitive
damages awards has exposed the constitutional defects that inhere in the
common-law system.  That we did not discover these defects earlier is
regrettable, but it does not mean that we can pretend that they do not exist
now.  "New cases expose old infirmities which apathy or absence of
challenge has permitted to stand.  But the constitutional imperatives   .
. . must have priority over the comfortable convenience of the status quo."
Williams, 399 U.S., at 245. Circumstances today are different than they were 200
years ago, and nothing in the Fourteenth Amendment requires us to blind
ourselves to this fact.  See Wheeler 277.  Just the opposite is true.  The Due
Process Clause demands that we possess some degree of confidence that the
procedures employed to deprive persons of life, liberty, and property  
are capable of producing fair and reasonable results.  When we lose that
confidence, a change must be made.
III
"'The touchstone of due process is protection of the individual against
arbitrary action of government.'" Daniels v. Williams, 474 U.S. 327, 331 (1986),
quoting Dent v. West Virginia, 129 U.S. 114, 123 (1889). Alabama's common-law
scheme for awarding punitive damages provides a jury with "such skeletal
guidance," Browning-Ferris, supra, at 281 (Brennan, J., concurring), that it
invites -- even requires -- arbitrary results.  It gives free reign to the
biases and prejudices of individual jurors, allowing them to target unpopular
defendants and punish selectively.  In short, it is the antithesis of due
process.  It does not matter that the system has been around for a long time, or
that the result in this particular case may not seem glaringly unfair. The
common-law scheme yields unfair and inconsistent results "in so many instances
that it should be held violative of due process in every case." Burnham, 495
U.S., at 628 (White, J., concurring in part and concurring in judgment).
I would require Alabama to adopt some method, either through its legislature or
its courts, to constrain the discretion of juries in deciding whether or not to
impose punitive damages and in fixing the amount of such awards.  As a number of
effective procedural safeguards are available, we need not dictate to the States
the precise manner in which they must address the problem.  We should
permit the States to experiment with different methods and to adjust these
methods over time.
This conclusion is neither groundbreaking nor remarkable.  It reflects merely a
straightforward application of our Due Process Clause jurisprudence.  Given our
statements in recent cases such as Browning-Ferris, supra, and Bankers Life &
Casualty Co. v. Crenshaw, 486 U.S. 71 (1988), the parties had every reason to
expect that this would be the Court's holding.  Why, then, is it consigned to a
dissent rather than a majority opinion?  It may be that the Court is reluctant
to afford procedural due process to Pacific Mutual because it perceives that
such a ruling would force us to evaluate the constitutionality of every State's
punitive damages scheme.  I am confident, though, that if we announce what the
Constitution requires and allow the States sufficient flexibility to respond,
the constitutional problems will be resolved in time without any undue burden on
the federal courts.  Indeed, it may have been our hesitation that has inspired a
flood of petitions for certiorari.  For more than 20 years, this Court has
criticized common-law punitive damages procedures, see supra, at 54-55, but has
shied away from its duty to step in, hoping that the problems would go
away.  It is now clear that the problems are getting worse, and that the time
has come to address them squarely.  The Court does address them today.  In my
view, however, it offers an incorrect answer.
