,
She said, It hath reached me, O auspicious King, that when they brought him the news of his wife having borne him a boy child, Zau al- Makan rejoiced with great joy and cried, "Now is my back strengthened, for that I have been blessed with a son whose name is Kanmakan." And he spake to the Wazir Dandan, saying, "I am minded to leave this mourning and order perfections of the Koran for my brother and command almsdeeds on his account." Quoth the Wazir, "Thy design is good." Thereupon he caused tents to be pitched over his brother's tomb; so they raised them and gathered together such of the men at arms as could repeat the Koran; and some began reciting the Holy volume; whilst others chanted litanies containing the names of Allah, and thus they did till the morning. Then Zau al-Makan went up to the grave of his brother Sharrkan and poured forth copious tears, and improvised these couplets,
"They bore him bier'd, and all who followed wept * With Moses' shrieks what day o'erhead shook Tor;  
   Till reached the grave which Pate had made his home, * Dug in men's souls who one sole God adore:  
   Ne'er had I thought before to see my joy * Borne on the bier which heads of bearers bore:  
   Ah no! nor ere they homed thee in the dust * That stars of heaven earth ever covered o'er.  
   Is the tomb dweller hostage of a stead, * Where light and splendour o'er thy face shall pour?  
   Praise to restore his life her word hath pledged: * Cribbed and confined he shall dispread the more!"
When Zau al-Makan had made an end of his versifying he wept and wept with him all the troops; then he came to the grave and threw himself upon it wild with woe, and the Wazir repeated the words of the poet,
"Pain leaving life that fleets thou hast th' eternal won; * Thou didst as whilom many a doer like thee hath done  
   Leftest this worldly house without reproach or blame; * Ah, may th' ex change secure thee every benison!  
   Thou west from hostile onset shield and firm defence, * For us to baffle shafts and whistling spears to shun.  
   I see this world is only cheat and vanity, * Where man naught else must seek but please the Truthful One:  
   Th' Empyrean's Lord allow thee bower of heavenly bliss, * And wi' thy faithful friends The Guide show goodly wone:  
   I bid thee last good e'en with sigh of bitter grief, * Seeing the West in woe for lack of Easting Sun."
When the Wazir Dandan had finished his reciting, he wept with sore weeping and the tears rained from his eyes like cushioned pearls. Then came forward one who had been of Sharrkan's boon companions in his cups and he wept till ran in rills the drops, and he enumerated the dead man's generous qualities, reciting the following pentastichs,
"Where gone is Bounty since thy hand is turned to clay? * And I in misery lie since thou west ta'en away.  
   See'st not, O litter guide (Heaven keep thee glad and gay!), * How tears adorn my cheeks, these furrowed wrinkles fray? 
  A sight to joy shine eyes and fill thee with dismay.  
  By Allah ne'er this heart within I spoke of thee; * Ah no! nor dared my sight to see thy brilliancy:  
  Save that my tear drops sorest wound have garred me dree * Yea! and if e'er on other rest these eyne of me, 
  May yearning draw their reins nor suffer sleep to see."
And when the man stinted reciting, Zau al-Makan and the Minister Dandan wept and the whole army was moved to tears; after which all retired to their tents, and the King turning to the Wazir took counsel with him concerning the conduct of the campaign. On this wise the two passed days and nights, while Zau al-Makan was weighed down with grief and mourning till at last he said, "I long to hear stories and adventures of Kings and tales of lover folk enslaved by love; haply Allah may make this to solace that which is on my heart of heavy anxiety, and stint and stay my weeping and wailing." Quoth the Wazir, "If naught can dispel thy trouble but hearing curious tales of Kings and people long gone before and stories of folk enslaved by love of yore, and so forth, this thing were easy, for I had no other business, in the lifetime of thy father (who hath found mercy) than to relate stories and to repeat verses to him. This very night I will tell thee a tale of a lover and his beloved, so shall thy breast be broadened." When Zau al-Makan heard these words from the Minister, his heart was set upon that which had been promised to him and he did nothing but watch for the coming of the night, that he might hear what the Wazir Dandan had to tell of the Kings of yore and distracted lovers long gone before. And hardly would he believe that night had fallen ere he bade light the wax candles and the lamps and bring all that was needful of meat and drink and perfume gear, and what not; and when all was in presence, he summoned the Wazir Dandan, and the Emirs Rustam and Bahram and Tarkash and the Grand Chamberlain; then waited till the whole party was seated before him; whereupon he turned to the Minister and said, "Know, O Wazir, that night is come and hath let down over us its veil of gloom, and we desire that thou tell us those tales which thou promisedst us." Replied the Wazir, "With joy and good will."--And Shahrazad perceived the dawn of day and ceased to say her permitted say.
When it was the One Hundred and Seventh Night