,
She said, It hath reached me, O auspicious King, that when the girl's glance fell on Ali Shar, she cast at him a look with longing eyes, which cost her a thousand sighs, and her heart was taken with him; for that he was of favour passing fair and pleasanter than zephyr or northern air; and she said, "O broker, I will be sold to none but to this my lord, owner of the handsome face and slender form whom the poet thus describeth,
'Displaying that fair face * The tempted they assailed  
 Who, had they wished me safe * That lovely face had veiled!'
For none shall own me but he, because his cheek is smooth and the water of his mouth sweet as Salsabil; his spittle is a cure for the sick and his charms daze and dazzle poet and proser, even as saith one of him,
'His honey dew of lips is wine; his breath * Musk and those teeth, smile shown, are camphor's hue:  
   Rizwán hath turned him out o' doors, for fear * The Houris lapse from virtue at the view  
   Men blame his bearing for its pride, but when * In pride the full moon sails, excuse is due.'
Lord of the curling locks and rose red cheeks and ravishing look of whom saith the poet,
'The fawn-like one a meeting promised me * And eye expectant waxed and heart unstirred:  
   His eyelids bade me hold his word as true; * But, in their languish, can he keep his word?'
And as saith another,
'Quoth they, 'Black letters on his cheek are writ! * How canst thou love him and a side-beard see?'  
   Quoth I, 'Cease blame and cut your chiding short; * If those be letters 'tis a forgery:'  
   Gather his charms all growths of Eden garth * Whereto those Kausar-lips bear testimony.'"
When the broker heard the verses she repeated on the charms of Ali Shar, he marvelled at her eloquence, no less than at the brightness of her beauty; but her owner said to him, "Marvel not at her splendour which shameth the noonday sun, nor that her memory is stored with the choicest verses of the poets; for besides this, she can repeat the glorious Koran, according to the seven readings, and the august Traditions, after ascription and authentic transmission; and she writeth the seven modes of handwriting and she knoweth more learning and knowledge than the most learned. Moreover, her hands are better than gold and silver; for she maketh silken curtains and selleth them for fifty gold pieces each; and it taketh her but eight days to make a curtain." Exclaimed the broker, "O happy the man who hath her in his house and maketh her of his choicest treasures!"; and her owner said to him, "Sell her to whom she will." So the broker went up to Ali Shar and, kissing his hands, said to him, "O my lord, buy thou this damsel, for she hath made choice of thee." Then he set forth to him all her charms and accomplishments, and added, "I give thee joy if thou buy her, for this be a gift from Him who is no niggard of His giving." Whereupon Ali bowed his head groundwards awhile, laughing at himself and secretly saying, "Up to this hour I have not broken my fast; yet I am ashamed before the merchants to own that I have no money wherewith to buy her." The damsel, seeing him hang down his head, said to the broker, "Take my hand and lead me to him, that I may show my beauty to him and tempt him to buy me; for I will not be sold to any but to him." So the broker took her hand and stationed her before Ali Shar, saying, "What is thy good pleasure, O my lord?" But he made him no answer, and the girl said to him, "O my lord and darling of my heart, what aileth thee that thou wilt not bid for me? Buy me for what thou wilt and I will bring thee good fortune." So he raised his eyes to her and said, "Is buying perforce? Thou art dear at a thousand dinars." Said she, "Then buy me, O my lord, for nine hundred." He cried, "No," and she rejoined, "Then for eight hundred;" and though he again said, "Nay," she ceased not to abate the price, till she came to an hundred dinars. Quoth he, "I have not by me a full hundred." So she laughed and asked, "How much dost thou lack of an hundred?" He answered, "By Allah, I have neither an hundred dinars, nor any other sum; for I own neither white coin nor red cash, neither dinar nor dirham. So look out thou for another and a better customer." And when she knew that he had nothing, she said to him, "Take me by the hand and carry me aside into a by- lane, as if thou wouldst examine me privily." He did so and she drew from her bosom a purse containing a thousand dinars, which she gave him, saying, "Pay down nine hundred to my price and let the hundred remain with thee by way of provision." He did as she bid him and, buying her for nine hundred dinars, paid down the price from her own purse and carried her to his house. When she entered it, she found a dreary desolate saloon without carpets or vessels; so she gave him other thousand dinars, saying, "Go to the bazar and buy three hundred dinars' worth of furniture and vessels for the house and three dinars' worth of meat and drink."--And Shahrazad perceived the dawn of day and ceased saying her permitted say.
When it was the Three Hundred and Twelfth Night