,
She said, It hath reached me, O auspicious King that quoth the slave-girl, "Bring us meat and drink for three dinars, furthermore a piece of silk, the size of a curtain, and bring golden and silvern thread and sewing silk of seven colours." Thus he did, and she furnished the house and they sat down to eat and drink; after which they went to bed and took their pleasure one of the other. And they lay the night embraced behind the curtain and were even as saith the poet,
"Cleave fast to her thou lovestand let the envious rail amain, 
  For calumny and envy ne'er to favour love were fain.  
  Lo, whilst I slept, in dreams I saw thee lying by my side  
  And, from thy lips the sweetest, sure, of limpid springs did drain.  
  Yea, true and certain all I saw is, as I will avouch,  
  And 'spite the envier, thereto I surely will attain.  
  There is no goodlier sight, indeed, for eyes to look upon,  
  Than when one couch in its embrace enfoldeth lovers twain.  
  Each to the other's bosom clasped, clad in their twinned delight, 
  Whilst hand with hand and arm with arm about their necks enchain  
  Lo, when two hearts are straitly knit in passion and desire,  
  But on cold iron smite the folk who chide at them in vain.  
  Thou, that for loving censurest the votaries of love,  
  Canst thou assain a heart diseased or heal-a cankered brain?  
  If in thy time thou kind but one to love thee and be true,  
  I rede thee cast the world away and with that one remain."
So they lay together till the morning and love for the other waxed firmly fixed in the heart of each. And on rising, Zumurrud took the curtain and embroidered it with coloured silks and purpled it with silver and gold thread and she added thereto a border depicting round about it all manner of birds and beasts; nor is there in the world a feral but she wrought his semblance. This she worked in eight days, till she had made an end of it, when she trimmed it and glazed and ironed it and gave it to her lord, saying, "Carry it to the bazar and sell it to one of the merchants at fifty dinars; but beware lest thou sell it to a passer-by, as this would cause a separation between me and thee, for we have foes who are not unthoughtful of us." "I hear and I obey," answered he and, repairing to the bazar, sold the curtain to a merchant, as she bade him; after which he bought a piece of silk for another curtain and gold and silver and silken thread as before and what they needed of food, and brought all this to her, giving her the rest of the money. Now every eight days she made a curtain, which he sold for fifty dinars, and on this wise passed a whole year. At the end of that time, he went as usual to the bazar with a curtain, which he gave to the broker; and there came up to him a Nazarene who bid him sixty dinars for it; but he refused, and the Christian continued bidding higher and higher, till he came to an hundred dinars and bribed the broker with ten ducats. So the man returned to Ali Shar and told him of the proffered price and urged him to accept the offer and sell the article at the Nazarene's valuation, saying, "O my lord, be not afraid of this Christian for that he can do thee no hurt." The merchants also were urgent with him; so he sold the curtain to the Christian, albeit his heart misgave him; and, taking the money, set off to return home. Presently, as he walked, he found the Christian walking behind him; so he said to him, "O Nazarene, why dost thou follow in my footsteps?" Answered the other "O my lord, I want a something at the end of the street, Allah never bring thee to want!"; but Ali Shar had barely reached his place before the Christian overtook him; so he said to him, "O accursed, what aileth thee to follow me wherever I go?" Replied the other, "O my lord, give me a draught of water, for I am athirst; and with Allah be thy reward!" Quoth Ali Shar to himself, "Verily, this man is an Infidel who payeth tribute and claimeth our protection and he asketh me for a draught of water; by Allah, I will not baulk him!"--And Shahrazad perceived the dawn of day and ceased to say her permitted say.
When it was the Three Hundred and Thirteenth Night