,
She said, It hath reached me, O auspicious King, that Zumurrud called for succour upon our Lord Mohammed (whom Allah bless and keep!). Such was her case; but as regards Ali Shar, he ceased not sleeping till next day, when the Bhang quitted his brain and he opened his eyes and cried out, "O Zumurrud"; but no one answered him. So he entered the saloon and found the empty air and the fane afar; whereby he knew that it was the Nazarene who had played him this trick. And he groaned and wept and lamented and again shed tears, repeating these couplets,
"O Love thou'rt instant in thy cruellest guise; * Here is my heart 'twixt fears and miseries:  
   Pity, O lords, a thrall who, felled on way * Of Love, erst wealthy now a beggar lies:  
   What profits archer's art if, when the foe * Draw near, his bowstring snap ere arrow lies:  
   And when griefs multiply on generous man * And urge, what fort can fend from destinies?  
   How much and much I warded parting, but * 'When Destiny descends she blinds our eyes?'"  
   And when he had ended his verse, he sobbed with loud sobs and repeated also these couplets,
"Enrobes with honour sands of camp her foot step wandering lone, * Pines the poor mourner as she wins the stead where wont to wane  
   She turns to resting-place of tribe, and yearns thereon to view * The spring-camp lying desolate with ruins overstrown  
   She stands and questions of the site, but with the tongue of case * The mount replies, 'There is no path that leads to union, none!  
   'Tis as the lightning flash erewhile bright glittered o'er the camp * And died in darkling air no more to be for ever shown.'"
And he repented when repentance availed him naught, and wept and rent his raiment. Then he hent in hand two stones and went round about the city, beating his breast with the stones and crying "O Zumurrud!" whilst the small boys flocked round him, calling out, "A madman! A madman!" and all who knew him wept for him, saying, "This is such an one: what evil hath befallen him?" Thus he continued doing all that day and, when night darkened on him, he lay down in one of the city lanes and sleet till morning On the morrow, he went round about town with the stones till eventide, when he returned to his saloon to pass therein the night. Presently, one of his neighbours saw him, and this worthy old woman said to him, "O my son, Heaven give thee healing! How long hast thou been mad?" And he answered her with these two couplets, 
"They said, Thou revest upon the person thou lovest. * And I replied, The sweets of life are only for the mad.  
   Drop the subject of my madness, and bring her upon whom I rave * If she cure my madness do not blame me."
So his old neighbour knew him for a lover who had lost his beloved and said, "There is no Majesty and there is no Might, save in Allah, the Glorious, the Great! O my son, I wish thou wouldest acquaint me with the tale of thine affliction. Peradventure Allah may enable me to help thee against it, if it so please Him." So he told her all that had befallen him with Barsum the Nazarene and his brother the wizard who had named himself Rashid al-Din and, when she understood the whole case, she said, "O my son, indeed thou hast excuse." And her eyes railed tears and she repeated these two couplets,
"Enough for lovers in this world their ban and bane: * By Allah, lover ne'er in fire of Sakar fries:  
   For, sure, they died of love-desire they never told * Chastely, and to this truth tradition testifies."
And after she had finished her verse, she said, "O my son, rise at once and buy me a crate, such as the jewel-pedlars carry; buy also bangles and seal-rings and bracelets and ear-rings and other gewgaws wherein women delight and grudge not the cash. Put all the stock into the crate and bring it to me and I will set it on my head and go round about, in the guise of a huckstress and make search for her in all the houses, till I happen on news of her-- Inshallah!" So Ali Shar rejoiced in her words and kissed her hands, then, going out, speedily brought her all she required; whereupon she rose and donned a patched gown and threw over her head a honey-yellow veil, and took staff in hand and, with the basket on her head, began wandering about the passages and the houses. She ceased not to go from house to house and street to street and quarter to quarter, till Allah Almighty led her to the house of the accursed Rashid al-Din the Nazarene where, hearing groans within, she knocked at the door,--And Shahrazad perceived the dawn of day and ceased to say her permitted say.
When it was the Three Hundred and Sixteenth Night