,
She said, It hath reached me, O auspicious King, that Ibn Mansur continued: "So I said, 'Do what seemeth good to thee;' whereupon he called to one of his slave-girls, 'Bring me ink case and paper;' and wrote these couplets,
'I pray in Allah's name, O Princess mine, be light * On me, for Love hath robbed me of my reason's sight'  
   'Slaved me this longing and enthralled me love of you; * And clad in sickness garb, a poor and abject wight.  
   I wont ere this to think small things of Love and hold, * O Princess mine, 'twas silly thing and over-slight.  
   But when it showed me swelling surges of its sea, * To Allah's hest I bowed and pitied lover's plight.  
   An will you, pity show and deign a meeting grant, * An will you kill me still forget not good requite.'
Then he sealed the letter and gave it to me. So I took it and, repairing to Budur's house, raised the door-curtain little by little, as before, and looking in behold, I saw ten damsels, high-bosomed virgins, like moons, and the Lady Budur as she were the full moon among the stars, sitting in their midst, or the sun, when it is clear of clouds and mist; nor was there on her any trace of pain or care. And as I looked and marvelled at her case, she turned her glance upon me and, seeing me standing at the door, said to me, 'Well come, and welcome and all hail to thee, O Ibn Mansur! Come in.' So I entered and saluting her gave her the letter; and she read it and when she understood it, she said laughingly to me, 'O Ibn Mansur, the poet lied not when he sang,
'Indeed I'll bear my love for thee with firmest soul, * Until from thee to me shall come a messenger.
'Look'ye, O Ibn Mansur, I will write thee an answer, that he may give thee what he promised thee.' And I answered, 'Allah requite thee with good!' So she called out to a handmaid, 'Bring inkcase and paper,' and wrote these couplets,
'How comes it I fulfilled my vow the while that vow broke you? * And, seen me lean to equity, iniquity wrought you?  
   'Twas you initiated wrongous dealing and despite: * You were the treachetour and treason came from only you!  
   I never ceased to cherish mid the sons of men my troth, * And keep your honour brightest bright and swear by name of you  
   Until I saw with eyes of me what evil you had done; * Until I heard with ears of me what foul report spread you.  
   Shall I bring low my proper worth while raising yours so high? * By Allah had you me eke I had honoured you!  
   But now uprooting severance I will fain console my heart, * And wring my fingers clean of you for evermore to part!'
Quoth I, 'By Allah, O my lady, between him and death there is but the reading of this letter!' So I tore it in pieces and said to her, 'Write him other than these lines.' 'I hear and obey answered she and wrote the following couplets,
'Indeed I am consolèd now and sleep without a tear, * And all that happened slandering tongues have whispered in mine ear:  
   My heart obeyed my hest and soon forgot thy memory, * And learnt mine eyelids 'twas the best to live in severance sheer:  
   He lied who said that severance is a bitterer thing than gall: * It never disappointed me, like wine I find it cheer:  
   I learnt to hate all news of thee, e'en mention of thy name, * And turn away and look thereon with loathing pure and mere:  
   Lookye! I cast thee out of heart and far from vitals mine; * Then let the slanderer wot this truth and see I am sincere.'
Quoth I, 'By Allah, O my lady, when he shall read these verses, his soul will depart his body!' Quoth she, 'O Ibn Mansur, is passion indeed come to such a pass with him that thou sayest this saying?' Quoth I, 'Had I said more than this verily it were but the truth: but mercy is of the nature of the noble.' Now when she heard this her eyes brimmed over with tears and she wrote him a note, I swear by Allah, O Commander of the Faithful, there is none in thy Chancery could write the like of it; and therein were these couplets,
'How long shall I thy coyness and thy great aversion see? * Thou hast satisfied my censurers and pleased their enmity:  
   I did amiss and wot it not; so deign to tell me now * Whatso they told thee, haply 'twas the merest calumny.  
   I wish to welcome thee, dear love, even as welcome I * Sleep to these eyes and eyelids in the place of sleep to be.  
   And since 'tis thou hast made me drain th' unmixèd cup of love, * If me thou see with wine bemused heap not thy blame on me!'
And when she had written the missive,--And Shahrazad perceived the dawn of day and ceased to say her permitted say.
When it was the Three Hundred and Thirty-third Night