,
She said, It hath reached me, O auspicious King, that "Jubayr continued, 'So cried I to her, Repeat the couplets and the air!' But she would not; whereupon I bade the boatmen pelt her with oranges, and they pelted her till we feared her boat would founder Then she went her way, and this is how the love was transferred from her heart to mine.' So I wished them joy of their union and, taking the purse with its contents, I returned to Baghdad." Now when the Caliph heard Ibn Mansur's story his heart was lightened and the restlessness and oppression from which he suffered forsook him. And they also tell the tale of...
The Caliph Al-Maamun was sitting one day in his palace, surrounded by his Lords of the realm and Officers of state, and there were present also before him all his poets and cup- companions amongst the rest one named Mohammed of Bassorah. Presently the Caliph turned and said to him, "O Mohammed, I wish thee forthwith to tell me something that I have never before heard." He replied, "O Commander of the Faithful, dost thou wish me to tell thee a thing I have heard with my ears or a thing I have seen with my eyes?" Quoth Al-Maamun, "Tell me whichever is the rarer; so Mohammed al-Basri began: "Know, then, O Commander of the Faithful that there lived once upon a time wealthy man, who was a native of Al-Yaman;but he emigrated from his native land and came to this city of Baghdad, whose sojourn so pleased him that he transported hither his family and possessions. Now he had six slave-girls, like moons one and all; the first white, the second brown, the third fat, the fourth lean, the fifth yellow and the sixth lamp-black; and all six were comely of countenance and perfect in accomplishments and skilled in the arts of singing and playing upon musical-instruments. Now it so chanced that, one day, he sent for the girls and called for meat and wine; and they ate and drank and were mirthful and made merry Then he filled the cup and, taking it in his hand, said to the blonde girl, 'O new moon face, let us hear somewhat of thy pleasant songs.' So she took the lute and tuning it, made music thereon with such sweet melody that the place danced with glee; after which she played a lively measure and sang these couplets,
'I have a friend, whose form is fixed within mine eyes, * Whose name deep buried in my very vitals lies:  
   Whenas remembers him my mind all heart am I, * And when on him my gaze is turned I am all eyes.  
   My censor saith, 'Forswear, forget, the love of him,' * 'Whatso is not to be, how shall's be?'  
   My reply is. Quoth I, 'O Censor mine, go forth from me, avaunt! * And make not light of that on humans heavy lies.'
Hereat their master rejoiced and, drinking off his cup, gave the damsels to drink, after which he said to the berry-brown girl, 'O brasier-light and joy of the sprite, let us hear thy lovely voice, whereby all that hearken are ravished with delight.' So she took the lute and thereon made harmony till the place was moved to glee; then, captivating all hearts with her graceful swaying, she sang these couplets,
'I swear by that fair face's life, I'll love but thee * Till death us part, nor other love but thine  
   I'll see: O full moon, with thy loveliness mantilla'd o'er, * The loveliest of our earth beneath thy banner be:  
   Thou, who surpassest all the fair in pleasantness * May Allah, Lord of worlds, be everywhere with thee!'
The master rejoiced and drank off his cup and gave the girls to drink; after which he filled again; and, taking the goblet in his hand, signed to the fat girl and bade her sing and play a different motive. So she took the lute and striking a grief- dispelling measure, sang these couplets,
'An thou but deign consent, O wish to heart affied! * I care not wrath and rage to all mankind betide.  
   And if thou show that fairest face which gives me life, * I reck not an dimimshed heads the Kings go hide.  
   I seek thy favours only from this 'versal-world: * O thou in whom all beauty cloth firm-fixt abide!'
The man rejoiced and, emptying his cup, gave the girls to drink. Then he signed to the thin girl and said to her, 'O Houri of Paradise, feed thou our ears with sweet words and sounds.' So she took the lute; and, tuning it, preluded and sang these two couplets,
'Say me, on Allah's path hast death not dealt to me, * Turning from me while I to thee turn patiently:  
   Say me, is there no judge of Love to judge us twain, * And do me justice wronged, mine enemy, by thee?'
Their lord rejoiced and, emptying the cup, gave the girls to drink. Then filling another he signed to the yellow girl and said to her, O sun of the day, let us hear some nice verses.' So she took the lute and, preluding after the goodliest fashion, sang these couplets,
'I have a lover and when drawing him, * He draws on me a sword- blade glancing grim:  
   Allah avenge some little of his wrongs, * Who holds my heart yet wreaks o erbearing whim  
   Oft though I say, 'Renounce him, heart!' yet heart * Will to none other turn excepting him.  
   He is my wish and will of all men, but * Fate's envious hand to me's aye grudging him.'
The master rejoiced and drank and gave the girls to drink; then he filled the cup and taking it in hand, signed to the black girl, saying, 'O pupil of the eye, let us have a taste of thy quality, though it be but two words.' So she took the lute and tuning it and tightening the strings, preluded in various modes, then returned to the first and sang to a lively air these couplets,
'Ho ye, mine eyes, let prodigal-tears go free; * This ecstasy would see my being unbe:  
   All ecstasies I dreefor sake of friend * I fondle, maugre enviers' jealousy:  
   Censors forbid me from his rosy cheek, * Yet e'er inclines my heart to rosery:  
   Cups of pure wine, time was, went circuiting * In joy, what time the lute sang melody,  
   While kept his troth the friend who madded me, * Yet made me rising star of bliss to see:  
   But--with Time, turned he not by sin of mine; * Than such a turn can aught more bitter be?  
   Upon his cheek there grows and glows a rose, * Nay two, whereof grant Allah one to me!  
   An were prostration by our law allowed * To aught but Allah, at his feet I had bowed.'
Thereupon rose the six girls and, kissing the ground before their lord, said to him, 'Do thou justice between us, O our lord!' So he looked at their beauty and loveliness and the contrast of their colours and praised Almighty Allah and glorified Him. Then said he, 'There is none of you but hath learnt the Koran by heart, and mastered the musical-art and is versed in the chronicles' of yore and the doings of peoples which have gone before; so it is my desire that each one of you rise and, pointing finger at her opposite, praise herself and dispraise her co-concubine; that is to: say, let the blonde point to the brunette, the plump to the slenderer and the yellow to the black girl; after which the rivals, each in her turn, shall do the like with the former; and be this illustrated with citations from Holy Writ and somewhat of anecdotes and,; verse, so as to show forth your fine breeding and elegance of your pleading.' And they answered him, 'We hear and we obey!;"--And Shahrazad perceived the dawn of day and ceased to say her permitted say.
When it was the Three Hundred and Thirty-fifth Night