,
She said, It hath reached me, O auspicious King, that Rose-in- Hood asked her nurse after hearing of the dream, "Tell me, canst thou keep a secret, O my nurse?"; whereto she answered, "And how should I not keep secrecy, I that am of the flower of the free?" Then the maiden pulled out the scroll, whereon she had written the verses and said, "Carry me this my letter to Uns al-Wujud and bring me his reply." The nurse took the letter and, repairing to Uns al-Wujud, kissed his hands and greeted him right courteously, then gave him the paper; and he read it and, comprehending the contents, wrote on the back these couplets,
"I soothe my heart and my love repel; * But my state interprets my love too well: 
  When tears flow I tell them mine eyes are ill, * Lest the censor see and my case fortell, 
  I was fancy-free and unknew I Love; * But I fell in love and in madness fell. 
  I show you my case and complain of pain, * Pine and ecstasy that your ruth compel: 
  I write you with tears of eyes, so belike * They explain the love come my heart to quell; 
  Allah guard a face that is veiled with charms, * Whose thrall is Moon and the Stars as well: 
  In her beauty I never beheld the like; * From her sway the branches learn sway and swell: 
  I beg you, an 'tis not too much of pains, * To call; 'twere boon without parallel. 
  I give you a soul you will haply take. * To which Union is Heaven, Disunion Hell."
Then he folded the letter and kissing it, gave it to the go- between and said to her, "O nurse, incline the lady's heart to me." "To hear is to obey," answered she and carried the script to her mistress, who kissed it and laid it on her head, then she opened it and read it and understood it and wrote at the foot of it these couplets,
"O whose heart by our beauty is captive ta'en, * Have patience and all thou shalt haply gain! 
  When we knew that thy love was a true affect, * And what pained our heart to thy heart gave pain, 
  We had granted thee wished-for call and more; * But hindered so doing the chamberlain. 
  When the night grows dark, through our love's excess * Fire burns our vitals with might and main: 
  And sleep from our beds is driven afar, * And our bodies are tortured by passion-bane. 
  'Hide Love!' in Love's code is the first command; * And from raising his veil thy hand restrain: 
  I fell love-fulfilled by yon gazelle: * Would he never wander from where I dwell!"
Then she folded the letter and gave it to the nurse, who took it and went out from her mistress to seek the young man; but, as she would fare forth, the chamberlain met her and said to her, "Whither away?" "To the bath," answered she; but in her fear and confusion, she dropped the letter, without knowing it, and went off unrecking what she had done; when one of the eunuchs, seeing it lying in the way, picked it up. When the nurse came without the door, she sought for it, but found it not, so turned back to her mistress and told her of this and what had befallen her. Meanwhile, the Wazir came out of the Harim and seated himself on his couch; whereupon behold, the eunuch, who had picked up the letter, came in to him, hending it in hand and said, "O my lord, I found this paper lying upon the floor and picked it up." So the Minister took it from his hand, folded as it was, and opening it, read the verses as above set down. Then, after mastering the meaning, he examined the writing and knew it for his daughter's hand; whereupon he went to her mother, weeping so abundant tears that his beard was wetted. His wife asked him, "What maketh thee weep, O my lord?"; and he answered, "Take this letter and see what is therein." So she took it and found it to be a love-letter from her daughter Rose-in-Hood to Uns al-Wujud: whereupon the ready drops sprang to her eyes; but she composed her mind, and, gulping down her tears, said to her husband, "O my lord, there is no profit in weeping: the right course is to cast about for a means of keeping thine honour and concealing the affair of thy daughter." And she went on to comfort him and lighten his trouble; but he said, "I am fearful for my daughter by reason of this new passion. Knowest thou not that the Sultan loveth Uns al- Wujud with exceeding love? And my fear hath two causes. The first concerneth myself; it is, that she is my daughter: the second is on account of the King; for that Uns al-Wujud is a favourite with the Sultan and peradventure great troubles shall come out of this affair. What deemest thou should be done?"--And Shahrazad perceived the dawn of day and ceased saying her permitted say.
When it was the Three Hundred and Seventy-third Night