,
She said, It hath reached me, O auspicious King, that the eremite having ended his verse, rose and coming up to Uns al-Wujud embraced him, and they wept together, till the hills rang with their cries and they fell down fainting. When they revived, they swore brotherhood in Allah Almighty; after which said Uns al-Wujud, "This very night will I pray to God and seek of Him direction anent what thou shouldst do to attain thy desire." Thus it was with them; but as regards Rose-in-Hood, when they brought her to the mountain and set her in the castle and she beheld its ordering, she wept and exclaimed, "By Allah, thou art a goodly place, save that thou lackest in thee the presence of the beloved!" Then seeing birds in the island, she bade her people set snares for them and put all they caught in cages within the castle; and they did so. But she sat at a lattice and bethought her of what had passed, and desire and passion and distraction redoubled upon her, till she burst into tears and repeated these couplets,
"O to whom now, of my desire complaining sore, shall I * Bewail my parting from my fere compelled thus to fly? 
  Flames rage within what underlies my ribs, yet hide them I * In deepest secret dreading aye the jealous hostile spy: 
  I am grown as lean, attenuate as any pick of tooth, * By sore estrangement, absence, ardour, ceaseless sob and sigh. 
  Where is the eye of my beloved to see how I'm become * Like tree stripped bare of leafage left to linger and to die. 
  They tyrannised over me whom they confined in place * Whereto the lover of my heart may never draw him nigh: 
  I beg the Sun for me to give greetings a thousandfold, * At time of rising and again when setting from the sky, 
  To the beloved one who shames a full moon's loveliness, * When shows that slender form that doth the willow-branch outvie. 
  If Rose herself would even with his cheek, I say of her * 'Thou art not like it if to me my portion thou deny:' 
  His honey-dew of lips is like the grateful water draught * Would cool me when a fire in heart upflameth fierce and high: 
  How shall I give him up who is my heart and soul of me, * My malady my wasting cause, my love, sole leach of me?"
Then, as the glooms of night closed around her, her yearning increased and she called to mind the past and recited also these couplets,
"'Tis dark: my transport and unease now gather might and main, * And love-desire provoketh me to wake my wonted pain: 
  The pang of parting takes for ever place within my breast, * And pining makes me desolate in destitution lain. 
  Ecstasy sore maltreats my soul and yearning burns my sprite, * And tears betray love's secresy which I would lief contain: 
  I weet no way, I know no case that can make light my load, * Or heal my wasting body or cast out from me this bane. 
  A hell of fire is in my heart upflames with lambent tongue * And Laza's furnace-fires within my liver place have ta'en. 
  O thou, exaggerating blame for what befel, enough * I bear with patience whatsoe'er hath writ for me the Pen! 
  I swear, by Allah, ne'er to find aught comfort for their loss; * "Tis oath of passion's children and their oaths are ne'er in vain. 
  O Night! Salams of me to friends and let to them be known * Of thee true knowledge how I wake and waking ever wone."
Meanwhile, the hermit said to Uns al-Wujud, "Go down to the palm- grove in the valley and fetch some fibre." So he went and returned with the palm-fibre, which the hermit took and, twisting into ropes, make therewith a net, such as is used for carrying straw; after which he said, "O Uns al-Wujud, in the heart of the valley groweth a gourd, which springeth up and drieth upon its roots. Go down there and fill this sack therewith; then tie it together and, casting it into the water, embark thereon and make for the midst of the sea, so haply thou shalt win thy wish; for whoso never ventureth shall not have what he seeketh." "I hear and obey," answered Uns al-Wujud. Then he bade the hermit farewell after the holy man had prayed for him; and, betaking himself to the sole of the valley, did as his adviser had counselled him; made the sack, launched it upon the water, and pushed from shore. Then there arose a wind, which drave him out to sea, till he was lost to the eremite's view; and he ceased not to float over the abysses of the ocean, one billow tossing him up and another bearing him down (and he beholding the while the dangers and marvels of the deep), for the space of three days. At the end of that time Fate cast him upon the Mount of the Bereft Mother, where he landed, giddy and tottering like a chick unfledged, and at the last of his strength for hunger and thirst; but, finding there streams flowing and birds on the branches cooing and fruit-laden trees in clusters and singly growing, he ate of the fruits and drank of the rills. Then he walked on till he saw some white thing afar off, and making for it, found that it was a strongly fortified castle. So he went up to the gate and seeing it locked, sat down by it; and there he sat for three days when behold, the gate opened and an eunuch came out, who finding Uns al-Wujud there seated, said to him, "Whence camest thou and who brought thee hither?" Quoth he, "From Ispahan and I was voyaging with merchandise when my ship was wrecked and the waves cast me upon the farther side of this island." Whereupon the eunuch wept and embraced him, saying, "Allah preserve thee, O thou friendly face! Ispahan is mine own country and I have there a cousin, the daughter of my father's brother, whom I loved from my childhood and cherished with fond affection; but a people stronger than we fell upon us in foray and taking me among other booty, cut off my yard and sold me for a castrato, whilst I was yet a lad; and this is how I came to be in such case."--And Shahrazad perceived the dawn of day and ceased to say her permitted say.
When it was the Three Hundred and Seventy-sixth Night