,
She said, It hath reached me, O auspicious King, that when the fisherman's craft, carrying Rose-in-Hood, made the city sitting upon the sea-shore, the man set about making fast to the land. Now the King of the city was a Prince of pith and puissance named Dirbas, the Lion; and he chanced at that moment to be seated, with his son, at a window in the royal palace giving upon the sea; and happening to look out seawards, they saw the fishing- boat make the land. They observed it narrowly and espied therein a young lady, as she were the full moon overhanging the horizon- edge, with pendants in her ears of costly balass-rubies and a collar of precious stones about her throat. Hereby the King knew that this must indeed be the daughter of some King or great noble and, going forth of the sea-gate of the palace, went down to the boat, where he found the lady asleep and the fisherman busied in making fast to shore. So he went up to her and aroused her, whereupon she awoke, weeping; and he asked her, "Whence comest thou and whose daughter art thou and what be the cause of thy coming hither?"; and she answered, "I am the daughter of Ibrahim, Wazir to King Shamikh; and the manner of my coming hither is wondrous and the cause thereof marvellous." And she told him her whole story first and last, hiding naught from him; then she groaned aloud and recited these couplets,
"Tear-drops have chafed mine eyelids and rail down in wondrous wise, * For parting pain that fills my sprite and turns to springs mine eyes,  
   For sake of friend who ever dwells within my vitals homed, * And I may never win my wish of him in any guise.  
   He hath a favour fair and bright, and brilliant is his face, * Which every Turk and Arab wight in loveliness outvies:  
   The Sun and fullest Moon lout low whenas his charms they sight, * And lover-like they bend to him whene'er he deigneth rise.  
   A wondrous spell of gramarye like Kohl bedecks his eyne, * And shows thee bow with shaft on string make ready ere it flies:  
   O thou, to whom I told my case expecting all excuse, * Pity a lover-wight for whom Love-shafts such fate devise!  
   Verily, Love hath cast me on your coast despite of me * Of will now weak, and fain I trust mine honour thou wilt prize:  
   For noble men, whenas perchance alight upon their bounds, * Grace-worthy guests, confess their worth and raise to dignities.  
   Then, O thou hope of me, to lovers' folly veil afford * And be to them reunion cause, thou only liefest lord!"
And when she had ended her verses, she again told the King her sad tale and shed plenteous tears and recited these couplets bearing on her case,
"We lived till saw we all the marvels Love can bear; * Each month to thee we hope shall fare as Rajab fare:  
   Is it not wondrous, when I saw them march amorn * That I with water o' eyes in heart lit flames that flare?  
   That these mine eyelids rain fast dropping gouts of blood? * That now my cheek grows gold where rose and lily were?  
   As though the safflower hue, that overspread my cheeks, * Were Joseph's coat made stain of lying blood to wear."
Now when the King heard her words he was certified of her love and longing and was moved to ruth for her; so he said to her, "Fear nothing and be not troubled; thou hast come to the term of thy wishes; for there is no help but that I win for thee thy will and bring thee to thy desire." And he improvised these couplets,
"Daughter of nobles, who thine aim shalt gain; * Hear gladdest news nor fear aught hurt of bane! 
  This day I'll pack up wealth, and send it on * To Shamikh, guarded by a champion-train;  
  Fresh pods of musk I'll send him and brocades, * And silver white and gold of yellow vein: 
  Yes, and a letter shall inform him eke * That I of kinship with that King am fain: 
  And I this day will lend thee bestest aid, * That all thou covetest thy soul assain. 
  I, too, have tasted love and know its taste * And can excuse whoso the same cup drain."
Then, ending his verse, he went forth to his troops and summoned his Wazir; and, causing him to pack up countless treasure, commanded him carry it to King Shamikh and say to him, "Needs must thou send me a person named Uns al-Wujud;" and say moreover "The King is minded to ally himself with thee by marrying his daughter to Uns al-Wujud, thine officer. So there is no help but thou despatch him to me, that the marriage may be solemnized in her father's kingdom." And he wrote a letter to King Shamikh to this effect, and gave it to the Minister, charging him strictly to bring back Uns al-Wujud and warning him, "An thou fail thou shalt be deposed and degraded." Answered the Wazir, "I hear and obey;" and, setting out forthright with the treasures, in due course arrived at the court of King Shamikh whom he saluted in the name of King Dirbas and delivered the letter and the presents. Now when King Shamikh read the letter and saw the name of Uns al-Wujud, he burst into tears and said to the Wazir "And where, or where, is Uns al-Wujud?; he went from us and we know not his place of abiding; only bring him to me, and I will give thee double the presents thou hast brought me." And he wept and groaned and lamented, saying these couplets,
"To me restore my dear; * I want not wealth untold:  
   Nor crave I gifts of pearls * Or gems or store of gold: 
  He was to us a moon * In beauty's heavenly fold. 
  Passing in form and soul; * With roe compare withhold! 
  His form a willow-wand, * His fruit, lures manifold; 
  But willow lacketh power * Men's hearts to have and hold. 
  I reared him from a babe * On cot of coaxing roll'd; 
  And now I mourn for him * With woe in soul ensoul'd."
Then, turning to the Wazir who had brought the presents and the missive, he said, "Go back to thy liege and acquaint him that Uns al-Wujud hath been missing this year past, and his lord knoweth not whither he is gone nor hath any tidings of him." Answered the Minister of King Dirbas, "O my lord, my master said to me, 'An thou fail to bring him back, thou shalt be degraded from the Wazirate and shall not enter my city. How then can I return without him?'" So King Shamikh said to his Wazir Ibrahim, "Take a company and go with him and make ye search for Uns al-Wujud everywhere." He replied, "Hearkening and obedience;" and, taking a body of his own retainers, set out accompanied by the Wazir of King Dirbas seeking Uns al-Wujud.--And Shahrazad perceived the dawn of day and ceased saying her permitted say.
When it was the Three Hundred and Seventy-ninth Night