,
She said, It hath reached me, O auspicious King, that the lad fell passionately in love with the slave-lass: so one day, when the other boys were heedless, he took her tablet and wrote on it these two couplets,
"What sayest thou of him by sickness waste, * Until he's clean distraught for love of thee? 
  Who in the transport of his pain complains, * Nor can bear load of heart in secrecy?"
Now when the girl took her tablet, she read the verses written thereon and understanding them, wept for ruth of him; then she wrote thereunder these two couplets,
"An if we behold a lover love-fordone * Desiring us, our favours he shall see: 
  Yea, what he wills of us he shall obtain, * And so befal us what befalling be."
Now it chanced that the teacher came in on them and taking the tablet, unnoticed, read what was written thereon. So he was moved to pity of their case and wrote on the tablet beneath those already written these two couplets addressed to the girl,
"Console thy lover, fear no consequence; * He is daft with loving lowe's insanity; 
  But for the teacher fear not aught from him; * Love-pain he learned long before learnt ye."
Presently it so happened that the girl's owner entered the school about the same time and, finding the tablet, read the above verses indited by the boy, the girl and the schoolmaster; and wrote under them these two couplets,
"May Allah never make you parting dree * And be your censurer shamed wearily! 
  But for the teacher ne'er, by Allah, eye * Of mine beheld a bigger pimp than he!"
Then he sent for the Kazi and witnesses and married them on the spot. Moreover, he made them a wedding-feast and treated them with exceeding munificence; and they ceased not abiding together in joy and happiness, till there came to them the Destroyer of delights and the Severer of societies. And equally pleasant is the story of...
It is related Al-Mutalammis once fled from Al-Nu'uman bin Munzir and was absent so long that folk deemed him dead. Now he had a beautiful wife, Umaymah by name, and her family urged her to marry again; but she refused, for that she loved her husband Al-Mutalammis very dearly. However, they were urgent with her, because of the multitude of her suitors, and importuned with her till at last she consented, albe reluctantly; and they espoused her to a man of her own tribe. Now on the night of the wedding, Al-Mutalammis came back and, hearing in the camp a noise of pipes and tabrets and seeing signs of a wedding festival, asked some of the children what was the merry-making, to which they replied, "They have married Umaymah wife of Al-Mutalammis, to such an one, and he goes in to her this night." When he heard this, he planned to enter the house amongst the mob of women and saw the twain seated on the bridal couch. By and by, the bridegroom came up to her, whereupon she sighed heavily and weeping, recited this couplet,
"Would Heaven I knew (but many are the shifts of joy and woe) * In what far distant land thou art, my Mutalammis, oh!"
Now Al-Mutalammis was a renowned poet; so he answered her saying;
"Right near at hand, Umaymah mine! when'er the caravan * Halted, I never ceased for thee to pine, I would thou know."
When the bridegroom heard this, he guess how the case stood and went forth from them in hast improvising,
"I was in bestest luck, but now my luck goes contrary: * A hospitable house and room contain your loves, you two!"
And he returned not but left the twain to their privacy. So Al- Mutalammis and his wife abode together in all comfort and solace of life and in all its joys and jollities till death parted them. And glory be to Him at whose command the earth and the heavens shall arise! And among other tales is that of...
The Caliph Harun al-Rashid loved the Lady Zubaydah with exceeding love and laid out for her a pleasaunce, wherein he made a great tank and set thereabouts a screen of trees and led thither water from all sides; hence the trees grew and interlaced over the basin so densely, that one could go in and wash, without being seen of any, for the thickness of the leafage. It chanced, one day, that Queen Zubaydah entered the garden and, coming to the swimming-bath,--And Shahrazad perceived the dawn of day and ceased to say her permitted say.
When it was the Three Hundred and Eighty-sixth Night