
She said, It hath reached me, "O auspicious King, that Queen Zubaydah entered the garden one day and, coming to the swimming- bath, gazed upon its goodliness; and the sheen of the water and the overshading of the trees pleased her. Now it was a day of exceeding heat; so she doffed her clothes and, entering the tank, which was not deep enough to cover the whole person, fell to pouring the water over herself from an ewer of silver. It also happened that the Caliph heard she was in the pool; so he left his palace and came down to spy upon her through the screen of the foliage. He stood behind the trees and espied her mother- nude, showing everything that is kept hidden. Presently, she became aware of him and turning, saw him behind the trees and was ashamed that he should see her naked. So she laid her hands on her parts, but the Mount of Venus escaped from between them, by reason of its greatness and plumpness; and the Caliph at once turned and went away, wondering and reciting this couplet,
"I looked on her with loving eyne * And grew anew my old repine:"
But he knew not what to say next; so he sent for Abu Nowas and said to him, "Make me a piece of verse commencing with this line." "I hear and obey," replied the poet and in an eye- twinkling extemporised these couplets,
"I looked on her with longing eyne * And grew anew my old repine 
   For the gazelle, who captured me * Where the two lotus-trees incline: 
   There was the water poured on it * From ewer of the silvern mine; 
   And seen me she had hidden it * But 'twas too plump for fingers fine. 
   Would Heaven that I were on it, * An hour, or better two hours, li'en."
Thereupon the Commander of the Faithful smiled and made him a handsome present and he went away rejoicing. And I have heard another story of...
The Prince of True Believers, Caliph Harun al-Rashid, was exceeding restless one night; so he rose and walked about his palace, till he happened upon a handmaid overcome with wine. Now he was prodigiously enamoured of this damsel; so he played with her and pulled her to him, whereupon her zone fell down and her petticoat-trousers were loosed and he besought her of amorous favour. But she said to him, "O Commander of the Faithful wait till to-morrow night, for I am unprepared for thee, knowing not of thy coming." So he left her and went away. But, when the morrow showed its light and the sun shone bright, he sent a page to her saying, "The Commander of the Faithful is about to visit thine apartment;" but she replied, "Day doth away with the promise of night." So he said to his courtiers, "Make me somewhat of verse, introducing these words, 'The Promise of Night is effaced by Day.'" Answered they, "We hear and obey," and Al- Rakashi came forward and recited the following couplets,
"By Allah, couldst thou but feel my pain, * Thy rest had turned and had fled away. 
  Hath left me in sorrow and love distraught, * Unseen and unseeing, that fairest may: 
  She promised me grace, then jilted and said, * 'The promise of night is effaced by day!'"
Then Abu Mus'ab came forward and recited these couplets,
"When wilt thou be wise and love-heat allay * That from food and sleeping so leads astray? 
  Suffices thee not ever weeping eye, * And vitals on fire when thy name they say? 
  He must smile and laugh and in pride must cry * 'The promise of Night is effaced by Day.'"
Last came Abu Nowas and recited the following couplets,
"As love waxt longer less met we tway * And fell out, but ended the useless fray; 
  One night in the palace I found her fou'; * Yet of modesty still there was some display: 
  The veil from her shoulders had slipt; and showed * Her loosened trousers Love's seat and stay: 
  And rattled the breezes her huge hind cheeks * And the branch where two little pomegranates lay: 
  Quoth I, 'Give me tryst;' whereto quoth she * To-morrow the fane shall wear best array:' 
  Next day I asked her, 'Thy word?' Said she * 'The promise of Night is effaced by Day.'"
The Caliph bade give a myriad of money each to Al-Rakashi and Abu Mus'ab, but bade strike off the head of Abu Nowas, saying, "Thou wast with us yesternight in the palace." Said he, "By Allah, I slept not but in my own house! I was directed to what I said by thine own words as to the subject of the verse; and indeed quoth Almighty Allah (and He is the truest of all speakers): 'As for poets (devils pursue them!) dost thou not see that they rove as bereft of their senses through every valley and that they say that which they do not?'" So the Caliph forgave him and gave him two myriads of money. And another tale is that of...
It is told of Mus'ab bin al-Zubayr that he met in Al- Medinah Izzah, who was one of the shrewdest of women, and said to her, "I have a mind to marry Ayishah daughter of Talhah, and I should like thee to go herwards and spy out for me how she is made." So she went away and returning to Mus'ab, said, "I have seen her, and her face is fairer than health; she hath large and well-opened eyes and under them a nose straight and smooth as a cane; oval cheeks and a mouth like a cleft pomegranate, a neck as a silver ewer and below it a bosom with two breasts like twin- pomegranates and further down a slim waist and a slender stomach with a navel therein as it were a casket of ivory, and back parts like a hummock of sand; and plumply rounded thighs and calves like columns of alabaster; but I saw her feet to be large, and thou wilt fall short with her in time of need." Upon this report he married her,--And Shahrazad perceived the dawn of day and ceased saying her permitted say.
When it was the Three Hundred and Eighty-seventh Day