
She said, It hath reached me, O auspicious King, that when Izzah this wise reported of Ayishah bint Talhah, Mus'ab married her and went in to her. And presently Izzah invited Ayishah and the women of the tribe Kuraysh to her house, when Ayishah sang these two couplets with Mus'ab standing by,
"And the lips of girls, that are perfume sweet; * So nice to kiss when with smiles they greet: 
  Yet ne'er tasted I them, but in thought of him; * And by thought the Ruler rules worldly seat."
The night of Mus'ab's going in unto her, he departed not from her, till after seven bouts; and on the morrow, a freewoman of his met him and said to him, "May I be thy sacrifice! Thou art perfect, even in this." And a certain woman said, "I was with Ayishah, when her husband came in to her, and she lusted for him; so he fell upon her and she snarked and snorted and made use of all wonder of movements and marvellous new inventions, and I the while within hearing. So, when he came out from her, I said to her, 'How canst thou do thus with thy rank and nobility and condition, and I in thy house?' Quoth she, 'Verily a woman should bring her husband all of which she is mistress, by way of excitement and rare buckings and wrigglings and motitations. What dislikest thou of this?' And I answered 'I would have this by nights.' Rejoined she, 'Thus is it by day and by night I do more than this; for when he seeth me, desire stirreth him up and he falleth in heat; so he putteth it out to me and I obey him, and it is as thou seest.'" And there also hath reached me an account of...
Abu al-Aswad bought a native-born slave-girl, who was blind of an eye, and she pleased him; but his people decried her to him; whereat he wondered and, turning the palms of his hands upwards, recited these two couplets,
"They find me fault with her where I default ne'er find, * Save haply that a speck in either eye may show: 
  But if her eyes have fault, of fault her form hath none, * Slim-built above the waist and heavily made below."
And this is also told of...
The Caliph Harun al-Rashid lay one night between two slave-girls, one from Al-Medinah and the other from Cufa and the Cufite rubbed his hands, whilst the Medinite rubbed his feet and made his concern stand up. Quoth the Cufite, "I see thou wouldst keep the whole of the stock-in-trade to thyself; give me my share of it." And the other answered, "I have been told by Malik, on the authority of Hisham ibn Orwah, who had it of his (grand) father, that the Prophet said, 'Whoso quickeneth the dead, the dead belongeth to him and is his.' But the Cufite took her unawares and, pushing her away, seized it all in her own hand and said, "Al-A'amash telleth us, on the authority of Khaysamah, who had it of Abdallah bin Mas'ud, that the Prophet declared, 'Game belongeth to him who taketh it, not to him who raiseth it.'" And this is also related of...
The Caliph Harun al-Rashid once slept with three slave-girls, a Meccan, a Medinite and an Irakite. The Medinah girl put her hand to his yard and handled it, whereupon it rose and the Meccan sprang up and drew it to herself. Quoth the other, "What is this unjust aggression? A tradition was related to me by Malik after Al-Zuhri, after Abdallah ibn Salim, after Sa'id bin Zayd, that the Apostle of Allah (whom Allah bless and keep!) said: 'Whoso enquickeneth a dead land, it is his.' And the Meccan answered, "It is related to us by Sufyan, from Abu Zanad, from Al-A'araj, from Abu Horayrah, that the Apostle of Allah said: 'The quarry is his who catcheth it, not his who starteth it.'" But the Irak girl pushed them both away and taking it to herself, said, "This is mine, till your contention be decided." And they tell a tale of...
There was a miller, who had an ass to turn his mill; and he was married to a wicked wife, whom he loved, while she hated him because she was sweet upon a neighbour, who misliked her and held aloof from her. One night, the miller saw, in his sleep, one who said to him, "Dig in such a spot of the ass's round in the mill, and thou shalt find a hoard." When he awoke, he told his wife the vision and bade her keep the secret; but she told her neighbour,--And Shahrazad perceived the dawn of day and ceased to say her permitted say.
When it was the Three hundred and Eighty-eighth Night