,
She said, It hath reached me, O auspicious King, that the youth then betook himself to asking pardon of Allah and to invoking prayer and praise upon the Apostle and the Lord of the Just and repeating verses of the Koran; after which he recited these couplets,
"O sire, be not deceived by worldly joys; * For life must pass, and joy must learn to mourn; 
  When thou art told of folk in evil plight, * Think thou must answer for all hearts forlorn; 
  And when thou bear thy dead towards the tombs, * Know thou wilt likewise on that way be bourne."
Continued Abu the Basri, "Now when the youth had ended his charge and his verses I left him and went home. On the morrow, I returned, at the appointed hour, and found him indeed dead, the mercy of Allah be upon him! So I washed him and, unsewing his gown, found in the bosom a ruby worth thousands of gold pieces and said to myself, 'By Allah, this youth was indeed weaned from worldly things!' After I had buried him, I made my way to Baghdad and, going to the Caliph's palace, waited till he came forth, when I addressed him in one of the streets and gave him the ruby, which when he saw, he knew and fell down in a fainting- fit. His attendants laid hands on me, but he revived and said to them, 'Release him and bring him courteously to the palace.' They did his bidding, and when he returned, he sent for me and carrying me into his chamber said to me, 'How doth the owner of this ruby?' Quoth I, 'Verily, he is dead;' and told him what had passed; whereupon he fell a-weeping and said, 'The son hath gained; but the sire hath lost.' Then he called out, saying, 'Ho, such an one!'; and behold there came out to him a lady who, when she saw me, would have withdrawn; but he cried to her, 'Come, and mind him not.' So she entered and saluted, and he threw her the ruby, which when she saw and she knew, she shrieked a great shriek and fell down in a swoon. As soon as she came to herself, she said, 'O Commander of the Faithful, what hath Allah done with my son?'; and he said to me, 'Do thou tell her his case' (as he could not speak for weeping). Accordingly, I repeated the story to her, and she began to shed tears and say in a faint and wailing voice, 'How I have longed for thy sight, O solace of mine eyes! Would I might have given thee to drink, when thou hadst none to slake thy thirst! Would I might have cheered thee, whenas thou foundest never a cheerer!' And she poured forth tears and recited these couplets,
'I weep for one whose lot a lonely death befel; * Without a friend to whom he might complain and moan: 
  And after glory and glad union with his friends, * He woke to desolation, friendless, lorn and lone; 
  What Fortune hides a while she soon to all men shall show; * Death never spared a man; no, not a single one: 
  O absent one, my Lord decreed thee strangerhood, * Far from thy nearest friends and to long exile gone: 
  Though Death forbid my hope of meeting here again, * On Doom-day's morrow we shall meet again, my son!
Quoth I, 'O Commander of the Faithful, was he indeed thy son?' Quoth he, 'Yes, and indeed, before I succeeded to this office, he was wont to visit the learned and company with the devout; but, when I became Caliph, he grew estranged from me and withdrew himself apart. Then said I to his mother, 'Verily this thy son hath cut the world and devoted his life to Almighty Allah, and it may be that hard times shall befal him and he be smitten with trial of evil chance; wherefore do thou given him this ruby, which he may find useful in hour of need.' So she gave it him, conjuring him to take it, and he obeyed her bidding. Then he left to us the things of our world and removed himself from us; nor did he cease to be absent from us, till he went to the presence of Allah (to whom be Honour and Glory!), pious and pure.' Then said he, 'Come, show me his grave.' So, I travelled with him to Bassorah and showed him his son's grave; and when he saw it, he wept and lamented, till he fell down in a swoon; after which he recovered and asked pardon of the Lord, saying, 'We are Allah's and unto Him we are returning!'; and involved blessings on the dead. Then he asked me to become his companion, but I said to him, "O Commander of the Faithful, verily, in thy son's case is for me the most momentous of admonitions!' And I recited these couplets,
"'Tis I am the stranger, visited by none; * I am the stranger though in town my own: 
  'Tis I am the stranger! Lacking kith and son, * And friend to whom I mote for aidance run. 
  I house in mosques which are my only home; * My heart there wones and shall for ever wone: 
  Then laud ye Allah, Lord of Worlds, as long * As soul and body dwell in union!'"
And a famous tale is told of...
Quoth one of the learned, "I passed once by a school, wherein a schoolmaster was teaching children; so I entered, finding him a good-looking man and a well-dressed; when he rose to me and made me sit with him. Then I examined him in the Koran and in syntax and prosody and lexicography; and behold, he was perfect in all required of him, so I said to him, 'Allah strengthen thy purpose! Thou art indeed versed in all that is requisite,' thereafter I frequented him a while, discovering daily some new excellence in him, and quoth I to myself, 'This is indeed a wonder in any dominie; for the wise are agreed upon a lack of wit in children's teachers.' Then I separated myself from him and sought him and visited him only every few days, till coming to see him one day as of wont, I found the school shut and made enquiry of his neighbors, who replied, 'Some one is dead in his house.' So I said in my mind, 'It behoveth me to pay him a visit of condolence,' and going to his house, knocked at the door, when a slave-girl came out to me and asked, 'What dost thou want?' and I answered, 'I want thy master.' She replied, 'He is sitting alone, mourning;' and I rejoined, 'Tell him that his friend so and so seeketh to console him.' She went in and told him; and he said, 'Admit him.' So she brought me in to him, and I found him seated alone and his head bound with mourning fillets. So I said to him, 'Allah requite thee amply! this is a path all must perforce tread, and it behoveth thee to take patience;' adding, 'But who is dead unto thee?' He answered, 'One who was dearest of the folk to me, and best beloved.' 'Perhaps thy father?' 'No!' 'Thy brother?' "No!' "One of thy kindred?' 'No!' Then asked I, 'What relation was the dead to thee?'; and he answered, 'My lover.' Quoth I to myself, 'This is the first proof to swear by his lack of wit.' So I said to him, 'Assuredly there be others than she and fairer;' and he made answer, 'I never saw her, that I might judge whether or no there be others fairer than she.' Quoth I to myself, 'This is another proof positive.' Then I said to him, 'And how couldst thou fall in love with one thou hast never seen?' He replied 'Know that I was sitting one day at the window, when lo! there passed by a man, singing the following distich,
'Umm Amr', thy boons Allah repay! * Give back my heart be't where it may!'"
And Shahrazad perceived the dawn of day and ceased to say her permitted say.
When it was the Four Hundred and Third Night