,
She said, It hath reached me, O auspicious King, that when Kurrat al-Ayn had finished her verse, Abu Isa said, "O Commander of the Faithful, though we endure disgrace, we shall be at ease. Dost thou give me leave to reply to her?" Quoth the Caliph, "Yes, say what thou wilt to her." So he swallowed his tears and sang these two distichs,
"Silent I woned and never owned my love; * But from my heart I hid love's blissful boon; 
  Yet, if my eyes should manifest my love, * 'Tis for my nearness to the shining moon."
Then Kurrat al-Ayn took the lute and played a lively tune and rejoined with these couplets,
"An what thou claimest were the real truth, * With only Hope content thou hadst not been 
  Nor couldest patient live without the girl * So rare of inner grace and outward mien. 
  But there is nothing in the claim of thee * At all, save tongue and talk that little mean."
When Abu Isa heard this he fell to weeping and wailing and evidencing his trouble and anguish. Then he raised his eyes to her and sighing, repeated these couplets,
"Under my raiment a waste body lies, * And in my spirit all comprising prize. 
  I have a heart, whose pain shall aye endure, * And tears like torrents pour these woeful eyes. 
  Whene'er a wise man spies me, straight he chides * Love, that misleads me thus in ways unwise: 
  O Lord, I lack the power this dole to bear: * Come sudden Death or joy in bestest guise!"
When he had ended, Ali bin Hisham sprang up and kissing his feet, said, "O my lord, Allah hearing thy secret hath answered thy prayer and consenteth to thy taking her with all she hath of things rare and fair, so the Commander of the Faithful have no mind to her." Quoth Al Maamun, "Had we a mind to her, we would prefer Abu Isa before ourselves and help him to his desire." So saying, he rose and embarking, went away, whilst Abu Isa tarried for Kurrat al-Ayn, whom he took and carried to his own house, his breast swelling with joy. See then the generosity of Ali son of Hisham! And they tell a tale of...
Al-Amin, brother of al-Maamun, once entered the house of his uncle Ibrahim bin al-Mahdi, where he saw a slave girl playing upon the lute; and, she being one of the fairest of women, his heart inclined to her. Ibrahim, seeing how it was with him, sent the girl to him, with rich raiment and precious ornaments. When he saw her, he thought that his uncle had lain with her; so he was loath to have to do with her, because of that, and accepting what came with her sent her back to Ibrahim. His uncle learnt the cause of this from one of al-Amin's eunuchs; so he took a shift of watered silk and worked upon its skirt, in letters of gold, these two couplets,
"No! I declare by Him to whom all bow, * Of nothing 'neath her petticoat I trow: 
  Nor meddle with her mouth; nor aught did I * But see and hear her, and it was enow!"
Then he clad her in the shift and, giving her a lute, sent her back again to his nephew. When she came into al-Amin's presence, she kissed ground before him and tuning the lute, sang thereto these two couplets,
"Thy breast thou baredst sending back the gift; * Showing unlove for me withouten shift: 
   An thou bear spite of Past, the Past forgive, * And for the Caliphate cast the Past adrift."
When she had made an end of her verse, Al-Amin looked at her and, seeing what was upon her skirt, could no longer control him self, And Shahrazad perceived the dawn of day and ceased saying her permitted say.
When it was the Four Hundred and Nineteenth Night