,
She said, It hath reached me, O auspicious King, that the Shaykh continued, "'So if any one enlarge in praise of a slave girl and wish to enhance her value by the mention of her beauties, he likeneth her to a youth, because of the illustrious qualities that belong to the male, even as saith the poet,
'Boy like of backside, in the deed of kind, * She sways, as sways the wand like boughs a-wind.'
An youths, then, were not better and fairer than girls, why should these be likened to them? And know also (Almighty Allah preserve thee!) that a youth is easy to be led, adapting himself to every rede, pleasant of converse and manners, inclining to assent rather than dissent, especially when his side face is newly down'd and his upper lip is first embrowned, and the purple lights of youth on his cheeks abound, so that he is like the full moon sound; and how goodly is the saying of Abu Tammam,
'The slanderers said 'There's hair upon his cheeks'; * Quoth I, 'Exceed not, that's no blemish there.'  
  When he could bear that haling of his hips * And pearl-beads shaded by mustachio hair; 
  And Rose swore solemn, holiest oath that is, * From that fair cheek she nevermore would fare 
  I spoke with eyelids without need of speech, * And they who answered me his eyebrows were. 
  He's even fairer than thou knewest him, * And cheek down guards from all would overdare. 
  Brighter and sweeter now are grown his charms, * Since down robes lip and cheek before were bare. 
  And those who blame me for my love of him, * When him they mention say of him, 'Thy Fair'!'
And quoth al-Hariri and quoth excellently well,
'My censors say, 'What means this pine for him? * Seest not the flowing hair on cheeks a flowing?' 
  I say, 'By Allah, an ye deem I dote, * Look at the truth in those fine eyes a-showing! 
  But for the down that veils his cheek and chin, * His brow had dazed all eyes no sight allowing: 
  And whoso sojourns in a growthless land, * How shall he move from land fair growths a-growing?'
And quoth another,
'My blamers say of me, 'He is consoled,' And lie! * No consolation comes to those who pine and sigh. 
  I had no solace when Rose bloomed alone on cheek, * Now Basil blooms thereon and now consoled am I.'
And again,
'Slim waisted one, whose looks with down of cheek * In slaughtering mankind each other hurtle 
  With the Narcissus blade he sheddeth blood, * The baldrick of whose sheath is freshest myrtle.'
And again,
'Not with his must I'm drunk, but verily * Those curls turn manly heads like newest wine 
  Each of his beauties envies each, and all * Would be the silky down on side face li'en.'
Such are the excellencies of the youth which women do not own, and they more than suffice to give those the preference over these.' She replied, 'Allah give thee health! verily, thou hast imposed the debate upon thyself; and thou hast spoken and hast not stinted and hast brought proofs to support every assertion. But, 'Now is the truth become manifest;' so swerve thou not from the path thereof; and, if thou be not content with a summary of evidence, I will set it before thee in fullest detail. Allah upon thee, where is the youth beside the girl and who shall compare kid and wild cow? The girl is soft of speech, fair of form, like a branchlet of basil, with teeth like chamomile-petals and hair like halters wherefrom to hang hearts. Her cheeks are like blood-red anemones and her face like a pippin: she hath lips like wine and breasts like pomegranates twain and a shape supple as a rattan-cane. Her body is well formed and with sloping shoulders dight; she hath a nose like the edge of a sword shining bright and a forehead brilliant white and eyebrows which unite and eyes stained by Nature's hand black as night. If she speak, fresh young pearls are scattered from her mouth forthright and all hearts are ravished by the daintiness of her sprite; when she smileth thou wouldst ween the moon shone out her lips between and when she eyes thee, sword blades flash from the babes of her eyes. In her all beauties to conclusion come, and she is the centre of attraction to traveller and stay-at-home. She hath two lips of cramoisy, than cream smoother and of taste than honey sweeter,'" --And Shahrazad perceived the dawn of day and ceased to say her permitted say.
When it was the Four Hundred and Twenty-second Night