,
She said, It hath reached me, O auspicious King, that when the preacher woman ended her verse she resumed, addressing the man, " 'Laud to Allah Almighty! how can it be hid from thee that the perfect pleasure is in women and that abiding blessings are not to be found but with them, seeing that Allah (extolled and exalted be He!) hath promised His prophets and saints black eyed damsels in Paradise and hath appointed these for a recompense of their godly works. And had the Almighty known that the joy supreme was in the possession of other than women, He had rewarded them therewith and promised it to them. And quoth he (whom Allah bless and preserve!), 'The things I hold dearest of the things of your world are three: women and perfume and the solace of my eyes in prayer.' Verily Allah hath appointed boys to serve his prophets and saints in Paradise, because Paradise is the abode of joy and delight, which could not be complete without the service of youths; but, as to the use of them for aught but service, it is Hell's putridity and corruption and turpitude. How well saith the poet,
'Men's turning unto bums of boys is bumptious; * Whoso love noble women show their own noblesse. 
  How many goodly wights have slept the night, enjoying * Buttocks of boys, and woke at morn in foulest mess 
  Their garments stained by safflower, which is yellow merde; * Their shame proclaiming, showing colour of distress. 
  Who can deny the charge, when so bewrayed are they * That e'en by day light shows the dung upon their dress? 
  What contrast wi' the man, who slept a gladsome night * By Houri maid for glance a mere enchanteress, 
  He rises off her borrowing wholesome bonny scent; * That fills the house with whiffs of perfumed goodliness. 
  No boy deserved place by side of her to hold; * Canst even aloes wood with what fills pool of cess!'
Then said she, 'O folk ye have made me to break the bounds of modesty and the circle of free born women and indulge in idle talk of chambering and wantonness, which beseemeth not people of learning. But the breasts of free-borns are the sepulchres of secrets' and such conversations are in confidence. Moreover, actions are according to intentions, and I crave pardon of Allah for myself and you and all Moslems, seeing that He is the Pardoner and the Compassionate.' Then she held her peace and thereafter would answer us of naught; so we went our way, rejoicing in that we had profited by her contention and yet sorrowing to part from her." And among the tales they tell is one of...
Quoth Abu Suwayd, "I and a company of my friends, entered a garden one day to buy somewhat of fruit; and we saw in a corner an old woman, who was bright of face, but her head-hair was white, and she was combing it with an ivory comb. We stopped before her, yet she paid no heed to us neither veiled her face: so I said to her, 'O old woman, wert thou to dye thy hair black, thou wouldst be handsomer than a girl: what hindereth thee from this?' She raised her head towards me"--And Shahrazad perceived the dawn of day and ceased to say her permitted say.
When it was the Four Hundred and Twenty-fourth Night