,
She said, It hath reached me, O auspicious King, that when the old trot told the merchant the provenance of the scones, he cried, "There is no Majesty and there is no Might save in Allah, the Glorious, the Great!" And he repeated the saying of the Most High, "Whatever evil falleth to thee it is from thyself;" and vomited till he fell sick and repented whenas repentance availed him naught. "Moreover, O King" (continued the second Wazir), "I have heard tell, of the malice of women, a tale of...
 Once upon a time there was a man, who was sword-bearer to one of the Kings,
  and he loved a damsel of the common sort. One day, he sent his page to her
  with a message, as of wont between them, and the lad sat down with her and
  toyed with her. She inclined to him and pressed him to her breast and groped
  him and kissed him whereupon he sought carnal connection of her and she consented;
  but, as the two were thus, lo! the youth's master knocked at the door. So she
  pushed the page through a trapdoor into an underground chamber there and opened
  the door to his lord, who entered hending sword in hand and sat down upon her
  bed. Then she came up to him and sported and toyed with him, kissing him and
  pressing him to her bosom, and he took her and lay with her. Presently, her
 husband knocked at the door and the gallant asked her, "Who is that?"; whereto she answered, "My husband." Quoth he, "How shall I do?" Quoth she, "Draw thy sword and stand in the vestibule and abuse me and revile me; and when my husband comes in to thee, do thou go forth and wend thy ways." He did as she bade him; and, when the husband entered, he saw the King's sword-bearer standing with naked brand in hand, abusing and threatening his wife; but, when the lover saw him, he was ashamed and sheathing his scymitar, went forth the house. Said the man to his wife, "What means this?"; and she replied, "O man, how blessed is the hour of thy coming! Thou hast saved a True Believer from slaughter, and it happed after this fashion. I was on the house-terrace, spinning, when behold, there came up to me a youth, distracted and panting for fear of death, fleeing from yonder man, who followed upon him as hard as he could with his drawn sword. The young man fell down before me, and kissed my hands and feet, saying, "O Protector, of thy mercy, save me from him who would slay me wrongously!" So I hid him in that underground chamber of ours and presently in came yonder man to me, naked brand in hand, demanding the youth. But I denied him to him, whereupon he fell to abusing and threatening me as thou sawest. And praised be Allah who sent thee to me, for I was distraught and had none to deliver me!" "Well hast thou done, O woman!" answered the husband. "Thy reward is with Allah the Almighty, and may He abundantly requite thy good deed!" Then he went to the trap door and called to the page, saying, "Come forth and fear not; no harm shall befal thee." So he came out, trembling for fear, and the husband said, "Be of good cheer: none shall I hurt thee;" condoling with him on what had befallen him; whilst the page called down blessings on his head. Then they both went forth, nor was that Cornuto nor was the page aware of that which the woman had contrived. "This, then, O King," said the Wazir, "is one of the tricks of women; so beware lest thou rely upon their I words." The King was persuaded and turned from putting his son to death; but, on the third day, the favourite came in to him I and, kissing the ground before him, cried, "O King, do me justice on thy son and be not turned from thy purpose by thy Ministers' prate, for there is no good in wicked Wazirs, and be not as the King of Baghdad, who relied on the word of a certain wicked counsellor of his." Quoth he, "And how was that?" Quoth she, "There hath been told me, O auspicious and well-advised King, a tale of...
 A certain King had a son, whom he loved and favoured with exceeding favour,
 over all his other children; and this son said to him one day, "O my father, I have a mind to fare a-coursing and a-hunting." So the King bade furnish him and commanded one of his Wazirs to bear him company and do all the service he needed during his trip. The Minister accordingly took everything that was necessary for the journey and they set out with a retinue of eunuchs and officers and pages, and rode on, sporting as they went, till they came to a green and well-grassed champaign abounding in pasture and water and game. Here the Prince turned to the Minister and told him that the place pleased him and he purposed to halt there. So they set down in that site and they loosed the falcons and lynxes and dogs and caught great plenty of game, whereat they rejoiced and abode there some days, in all joyance of life and its delight. Then the King's son gave the signal for departure; but, as they went along, a beautiful gazelle, as if the sun rose shining from between her horns, that had strayed from her mate, sprang up before the Prince, whereupon his soul longed to make prize of her and he coveted her. So he said to the Wazir, "I have a mind to follow that gazelle;" and the Minister replied, "Do what seemeth good to thee." Thereupon the Prince rode single-handed after the gazelle, till he lost sight of his companions, and chased her all that day till dusk, when she took refuge in a bit of rocky ground and darkness closed in upon him. Then he would have turned back, but knew not the way; whereat he was sore concerned and said, "There is no Majesty and there is no Might save in Allah, the Glorious, the Great!" He sat his mare all night till morning dawned, in quest of relief, but found none; and, when the day appeared, he fared on at hazard fearful, famished, thirsty, and knowing not whither to wend till it was noon and the sun beat down upon him with burning heat. By that time he came in sight of a great city, with massive base and lofty bulwarks; but it was ruined and desolate, nor was there any live thing therein save owl and raven. As he stood among the buildings, marvelling at their ordinance, lo! his eyes fell on a damsel, young, beautiful and lovely, sitting under one of the city walls wailing and weeping copious tears. So he drew nigh to her and asked, "Who art thou and who brought thee hither?" She answered, "I am called Bint al-Tamimah, daughter of Al-Tiyakh, King of the Gray Country. I went out one day to obey a call of nature, when an Ifrit of the Jinn snatched me up and soared with me between heaven and earth; but as he flew there fell on him a shooting-star in the form of a flame of fire and burned him, and I dropped here, where these three days I have hungered and thirsted; but when I saw thee I longed for life." --And Shahrazad perceived the dawn of day and ceased to say her permitted say.
 When it was the Five Hundred and Eighty-second Night