,
She said, It hath reached me, O auspicious King, that the Prince when addressed by the daughter of King Al-Tiyakh who said to him, "When I saw thee I longed for life," was smitten with ruth and grief for her and took her up on his courser's crupper, saying, "Be of good cheer and keep thine eyes cool and clear; for, if Allah (extolled and exalted be He!) restore me to my people and family, I will send thee back to thine own folk." Then he rode on, praying for deliverance, and presently the damsel said to him, "O King's son, set me down, that I may do an occasion under this wall." So he drew bridle and she alighted. He waited for her a long while as she hid herself behind the wall; and she came forth, with the foulest of favours; which when he saw, his hair stood on end and he quaked for fear of her and he turned deadly pale. Then she sprang up on his steed, behind him, wearing the most loathly of aspects, and presently she said to him, "O King's son, what ails thee that I see thee troubled and thy favour changed?" "I have bethought me of somewhat that troubles me." "Seek aid against it of thy father's troops and his braves." "He whom I fear careth naught for troops, neither can braves affright him." "Aid thyself against him with thy father's monies and treasures." "He whom I fear will not be satisfied with wealth." "Ye hold that ye have in Heaven a God who seeth and is not seen and is Omnipotent and Omniscient." "Yes, we have none but Him." "Then pray thou to Him; haply He will deliver thee from me thine enemy!" So the King's son raised his eyes to heaven and began to pray with his whole heart, saying, "O my God, I implore Thy succour against that which troubleth me." Then he pointed to her with his hand, and she fell to the ground, burnt black as charcoal. Therewith he thanked Allah and praised Him and ceased not to fare forwards; and the Almighty (extolled and exalted be He!) of His grace made the way easy to him and guided him into the right road, so that he reached his own land and came upon his father's capital, after he had despaired of life. Now all this befel by the contrivance of the Wazir, who travelled with him, to the end that he might cause him to perish on the way; but Almighty Allah succoured him. "And this" (said the damsel) "have I told thee, O King, that thou mayst know that wicked Wazirs deal not honestly by nor counsel with sincere intent their Kings; wherefore be thou wise and ware of them in this matter." The King gave ear to her speech and bade put his son to death; but the third Wazir came in and said to his brother Ministers, "I will warrant you from the King's mischief this day" and, going in to him, kissed the ground between his hands and said, "O King, I am thy true counsellor and solicitous for thee and for thine estate, and indeed I rede thee the best of rede; it is that thou hasten not to slay thy son, the coolth of thine eyes and the fruit of thy vitals. Haply his sin is but a slight slip, which this damsel hath made great to thee; and indeed I have heard tell that the people of two villages once destroyed one another, because of a drop of honey." Asked the King, "How was that?"; and the Wazir answered, saying, "Know, O King, that I have heard this story anent...
 A certain hunter used to chase wild beasts in wold, and one day he came upon
  a grotto in the mountains, where he found a hollow full of bees' honey. So
  he took somewhat thereof in a water-skin he had with him and, throwing it over
  his shoulder, carried it to the city, followed by a hunting dog which was dear
  to him. He stopped at the shop of an oilman and offered him the honey for sale
  and he bought it. Then he emptied it out of the skin, that he might see it,
  and in the act a drop fell to the ground, whereupon the flies flocked to it
  and a bird swooped down upon the flies. Now the oilman had a cat, which sprang
  upon the bird, and the huntsman's dog, seeing the cat, sprang upon it and slew
  it; whereupon the oilman sprang upon the dog and slew it, and the huntsman
  in turn sprang upon the oilman and slew him. Now the oilman was of one village
  and the huntsman of another; and when the people of the two places heard what
  had passed, they took up arms and weapons and rose one on other in wrath and
  the two lines met; nor did the sword leave to play amongst them, till there
 died of them much people, none knoweth their number save Almighty Allah. "And amongst other stories of the malice of women" (continued the Wazir) "I have heard tell, O King, one concerning...
 A man once gave his wife a dirham to buy rice; so she took it and went to
  the rice-seller, who gave her the rice and began to jest with her and ogle
  her, for she was dowered with beauty and loveliness, saying, "Rice is not good but with sugar which if thou wilt have, come in with me for an hour." So, saying, "Give me sugar," she went in with him into his shop and he won his will of her and said to his slave, "Weigh her out a dirham's worth of sugar." But he made the slave a privy sign, and the boy, taking the napkin, in which was the rice, emptied it out and put in earth and dust in its stead, and for the sugar set stones, after which he again knotted up the napkin and left it by her. His object, in doing this, was that she should come to him a second time; so, when she went forth of the shop, he gave her the napkin and she took it, thinking to have in it rice and sugar, and ganged her gait; but when she returned home and, setting it before her husband, went for a cooking-pot, he found in it earth and stones. So, as soon as she came back bringing the pot, he said to her, "Did I tell thee I had aught to build, that thou bringest me earth and stones?" When she saw this; she knew that the rice-seller's slave had tricked her; so she said to her husband, "O man, in my trouble of mind for what hath befallen me, I went to fetch the sieve and brought the cooking-pot." "What hath troubled thee?" asked he; and she answered, "O husband, I dropped the dirham thou gavest me in the market-street and was ashamed to search for it before the folk; yet I grudged to lose the silver, so I gathered up the earth from the place where it fell and brought it away, thinking to sift it at home. Wherefore I went to fetch the sieve, but brought the cooking-pot instead." Then she fetched the sieve and gave it to her husband, saying, "Do thou sift it; for thine eyes are sharper than mine." Accordingly he sat, sifting the clay, till his face and beard were covered with dust; and he discovered not her trick, neither knew what had befallen her. "This then, O King," said the Wazir, "is an instance of the malice of women, and consider the saying of Allah Almighty, "Surely the cunning of you (women) is great!' And again, 'Indeed, the malice of Satan is weak in comparison with the malice of women.'" The King gave ear to his Wazir's speech and was persuaded thereby and was satisfied by what he cited to him of the signs of Allah; and the lights of good counsel arose and shone in the firmament of his understanding and he turned from his purpose of slaying his son. But on the fourth day, the favourite came in to him weeping and wailing and, kissing the ground before him, said, "O auspicious King, and lord of good rede, I have made plainly manifest to thee my grievance and thou hast dealt unjustly by me and hast forborne to avenge me on him who hath wronged me, because he is thy son and the darling of thy heart; but Allah (extolled and exalted be He!) will presently succour me against him, even as He succoured the King's son against his father's Wazir." "And how was that?" asked the King; and she answered, "I have heard tell, O King, a tale of...
 There was once in times gone by a King who had one son and none other; and,
  when the Prince grew up to man's estate, he contracted him in marriage to another
  King's daughter. Now the damsel was a model of beauty and grace and her uncle's
  son had sought her in wedlock of her sire, but she would none of him. So, when
  he knew that she was to be married to another, envy and jealousy gat hold of
  him and he bethought himself and sent a noble present to the Wazir of the bridegroom's
  father and much treasure, desiring him to use craft for slaying the Prince
 or contrive to make him leave his intent of espousing the girl and adding, "O Wazir, indeed jealousy moveth me to this for she is my cousin." The Wazir accepted the present and sent an answer, saying, "Be of good cheer and of eyes cool and clear, for I will do all that thou wishest." Presently, the bride's father wrote to the Prince, bidding him to his capital, that he might go in to his daughter; whereupon the King his father gave him leave to wend his way thither, sending with him the bribed Wazir and a thousand horse, besides presents and litters, tents and pavilions. The Minister set out with the Prince, plotting the while in his heart to do him a mischief; and when they came into the desert, he called to mind a certain spring of running water in the mountains there, called Al-Zahra, whereof whosoever drank from a man became a woman. So he called a halt of the troops near the fountain and presently mounting steed again, said to the Prince, "Hast thou a mind to go with me and look upon a spring of water near hand?" The Prince mounted, knowing not what should befal him in the future, and they rode on, unattended by any, and without stopping till they came to the spring. The Prince being thirsty said to the Wazir, "O Minister, I am suffering from drouth," and the other answered, "Get thee down and drink of this spring!" So he alighted and washed his hands and drank, when behold, he straightway became a woman. As soon as he knew what had befallen him, he cried out and wept till he fainted away, and the Wazir came up to him as if to learn what had befallen him and cried, "What aileth thee?" So he told him what had happened, and the Minister feigned to condole with him and weep for his affliction, saying, "Allah Almighty be thy refuge in thine affliction! How came this calamity upon thee and this great misfortune to betide thee, and we carrying thee with joy and gladness, that thou mightest go in to the King's daughter? Verily, now I know not whether we shall go to her or not; but the rede is thine. What dost thou command me to do?" Quoth the Prince, "Go back to my sire and tell him what hath betided me, for I will not stir hence till this matter be removed from me or I die in my regret." So he wrote a letter to his father, telling him what had happened, and the Wazir took it and set out on his return to the city, leaving what troops he had with the Prince and inwardly exulting for the success of his plot. As soon as he reached the King's capital, he went in to him and, telling him what had passed, delivered the letter. The King mourned for his son with sore mourning and sent for the wise men and masters of esoteric science, that they might discover and explain to him this thing which had befallen his son, but none could give him an answer. Then the Wazir wrote to the lady's cousin, conveying to him the glad news of the Prince's misfortune, and he when he read the letter rejoiced with great joy and thought to marry the Princess and answered the Minister sending him rich presents and great store of treasure and thanking him exceedingly. Meanwhile, the Prince abode by the stream three days and three nights, eating not nor drinking and committing himself, in his strait, unto Allah (extolled and exalted be He!) who disappointeth not whoso relieth on him. On the fourth night, lo! there came to him a cavalier on a bright-bay steed with a crown on his head, as he were of the sons of the Kings, and said to him, "Who brought thee hither, O youth?" The Prince told him his mishap, how he was wending to his wedding, and how the Wazir had led him to a spring whereof he drank and incurred what had occurred; and as he spoke his speech was broken by tears. Having heard him the horseman pitied his case and said, "It was thy father's Wazir who cast thee into this strait, for no man alive save he knoweth of this spring;" presently adding, "Mount thee behind me and come with me to my dwelling, for thou art my guest this night." "Acquaint me who thou art ere I fare with thee," quoth the Prince; and quoth the other, "I am a King's son of the Jann, as thou a King's son of mankind; so be of good cheer and keep thine eyes clear of tear, for I will surely do away thy cark and care; and this is a slight thing unto me." So the Prince mounted him behind the stranger, and they rode on, leaving the troops, from the first of the day till midnight, when the King's son of the Jinn asked the Prince, "Knowest thou how many days' march we have covered in this time?" "Not I." "We have come a full year's journey for a diligent horseman." The Prince marvelled at this and said, "How shall I do to return to my people?" "That is not thine affair, but my business. As soon as thou art quit of thy complaint, thou shalt return to thy people in less than the twinkling of an eye; for that is an easy matter to me." When the Prince heard these words he was ready to fly for excess of joy; it seemed to him as he were in the imbroglio of a dream and he exclaimed, "Glory be to Him who can restore the unhappy to happiness!"--And Shahrazad perceived the dawn of day and ceased saying her permitted say.
 When it was the Five Hundred and Eighty-third Night