
She said, It hath reached me, O auspicious King, that the Kazi condemned the care-taker to make good the purse and bound over sundry of her debtors to answer for her. So she went forth, confounded and knowing not her way out of difficulty. Presently she met a five-year-old boy who, seeing her troubled, said to her, "What ails thee, O my mother?" But she gave him no answer, contemning him because of his tender age, and he repeated his question a second time and a third time till, at last, she told him all that had passed, not forgetting the condition that she was to keep the purse until all four had demanded it of her. Said the boy, "Give me a dirham to buy sweetmeats withal and I will tell the how thou mayst acquit thyself." So she gave him a silver and said to him, "What hast thou to say?" Quoth he, "Return to the Kazi, and say to him, It was agreed between myself and them that I should not give them the purse, except all four of them were present. Let them all four come and I will give them the purse, as was agreed." So she went back to the Kazi and said to him as the boy had counselled; and he asked the merchants, "Was it thus agreed between you and this woman?"; and they answered, "Yes." Quoth the Kazi, "Then bring me your comrade and take the purse." So they went in quest of their fellow, whilst the keeper came off scot-free and went her way without let or hindrance. And Allah is Omniscient! When the King and his Wazir and those present in the assembly heard the Prince's words they said to his father, "O our lord the King, in very sooth thy son is the most accomplished man of his time;" and they called down blessings upon the King and the Prince. Then the King strained his son to his bosom and kissed him between the eyes and questioned him of what had passed between the favourite and himself; and the Prince sware to him, by Almighty Allah and by His Holy Prophet that it was she who had required him of love which he refused, adding, "Moreover, she promised me that she would give thee poison to drink and kill the, so should the kingship be mine; whereupon I waxed wroth and signed to her, 'O accursed one, whenas I can speak I will requite thee!' So she feared me and did what she did." The King believed his words and sending for the favourite said to those present, "How shall we put this damsel to death?" Some counselled him to cut out her tongue and other some to burn it with fire; but, when she came before the King, she said to him, "My case with thee is like unto naught save the tale of the fox and the folk." "How so?" asked he; and she said, "I have heard, O King, tell a...
 A fox once made his way into a city by the wall and, entering a currier's
  store-house, played havoc with all therein and spoiled the skins for the owner.
  One day, the currier set a trap for him and taking him, beat him with the hides,
  till he fell down senseless, whereupon the man deeming him to be dead, cast
  him out into the road by the city-gate. Presently, an old woman who was walking
 by, seeing the fox said, "This is a fox whose eye, hung about a child's neck, is salutary against weeping." So she pluckt out his right eye and went away. Then passed a boy, who said, "What does this tail on this fox?"; and cut off his brush. After a while, up came a man and saying, "This is a fox whose gall cleareth away film and dimness from the eyes, if they be anointed therewith like kohl," took out his knife to slit up the fox's paunch. But Reynard said in himself, "We bore with the plucking out of the eye and the cutting off of the tail; but, as for the slitting of the paunch, there is no putting up with that!" So saying, he sprang up and made off through the gate of the city, hardly believing in his escape. Quoth the King, "I excuse her, and in my son's hands be her doom. If he will, let him torture her, and if he will, let him kill her." Quoth the Prince, "Pardon is better than vengeance and mercy is of the quality of the noble;" and the King repeated, "'Tis for thee to decide, O my son." So the Prince set her free, saying, "Depart from our neighbourhood and Alla pardon what is past!" Therewith the King rose from his throne of estate and seating his son thereon, crowned him with his crown and bade the Grandees of his realm swear fealty and commanded them do homage to him. And he said, "O folk, indeed, I am stricken in years and desire to withdraw apart and devote myself only to the service of my Lord; and I call you to witness that I divest myself of the kingly dignity, even as I have divested myself of my crown and set it on my son's head." So the troops and officers swore fealty to the Prince, and his father gave himself up to the worship of his Lord nor stinted from this, whilst his son abode in his kingship, doing justice and righteousness; and his power was magnified and his sultanate strengthened and he abode in all delight and solace of life, till there came to him the Certainty.
 There was once a man and a merchant named Omar and he had for issue three
  sons, the eldest called Salim, the youngest Judar and the cadet Salim. He reared
  them all till they came to man's estate, but the youngest he loved more than
  his brothers, who seeing this, waxed jealous of Judar and hated him. Now when
  their father, who was a man shotten in years, saw that his two eldest sons
  hated their brother, he feared lest after his death trouble should befall him
  from them. So he assembled a company of his kinsfolk, together with divers
  men of learning and property distributors of the Kazi's court, and bidding
 bring all his monies and cloth, said to them, "O folk, divide ye this money and stuff into four portions according to the law." They did so, and he gave one part to each of his sons and kept the fourth himself, saying, "This was my good and I have divided it among them in my lifetime; and this that I have kept shall be for my wife, their mother, wherewithal to provide for her subsistence whenas she shall be a widow."--And Shahrazad perceived the dawn of day and ceased saying her permitted say.
 When it was the Six Hundred and Seventh Night