,
She said, It hath reached me, O auspicious King, that when the merchant had divided his money and stuff into four portions he said, "This share shall be for my wife, their mother, wherewithal to provide for her subsistence whenas she shall be a widow." A little while after this he died, and neither of the two elder brothers was content with his share, but sought more of Judar, saying, "Our father's wealth is in thy hands." So he appealed to the judges; and the Moslems who had been present at the partition came and bore witness of that which they knew, wherefore the judge forbade them from one another; but Judar and his brothers wasted much money in bribes to him. After this, the twain left him awhile; presently, however, they began again to plot against him and he appealed a second time to the magistrate, who once more decided in his favour; but all three lost much money which went to the judges. Nevertheless Salim and Salim forbore not to seek his hurt and to carry the case from court to court, he and they losing till they had given all their good for food to the oppressors and they became poor, all three. Then the two elder brothers went to their mother and flouted her and beat her, and seizing her money crave her away. So she betook herself to her son Judar and told him how his brothers had dealt with her and fell to cursing the twain. Said he, "O my mother, do not curse them, for Allah will requite each of them according to his deed. But, O mother mine, see, I am become poor, and so are my brethren, for strife occasioneth loss ruin rife, and we have striven amain, and fought, I and they, before the judges, and it hath profited us naught: nay, we have wasted all our father left us and are disgraced among the folk by reason of our testimony one against other. Shall I then con tend with them anew on thine account and shall we appeal to the judges? This may not be! Rather do thou take up thine abode with me, and the scone I eat I will share with thee. Do thou pray for me and Allah will give me the means of thine alimony. Leave them to receive of the Almighty the recompense of their deed, and console thyself with the saying of the poet who said,
'If a fool oppress thee bear patiently; * And from Time expect thy revenge to see:  
 Shun tyranny; for if mount oppressed * A mount, 'twould be shattered by tyranny.' "
And he soothed and comforted her till she consented and took up her dwelling with him. Then he get him a net and went a fishing every day in the river or the banks about Bulak and old Cairo or some other place in which there was water; and one day he would earn ten coppers, another twenty and another thirty, which he spent upon his mother and himself, and they ate well and drank well. But, as for his brothers, they plied no craft and neither sold nor bought; misery and ruin and overwhelming calamity entered their houses and they wasted that which they had taken from their mother and became of the wretched naked beggars. So at times they would come to their mother, humbling themselves before her exceedingly and complaining to her of hunger; and she (a mother's heart being pitiful) would give them some mouldy, sour smelling bread or, if there were any meat cooked the day before, she would say to them, "Eat it quick and go ere your brother come; for 'twould be grievous to him and he would harden his heart against me, and ye would disgrace me with him." So they would eat in haste and go. One day among days they came in to their mother, and she set cooked meat and bread before them. As they were eating, behold, in came their brother Judar, at whose sight the parent was put to shame and confusion, fearing lest he should be wroth with her; and she bowed her face earthwards abashed before her son. But he smiled in their faces, saying, "Welcome, O my brothers! A blessed day! How comes it that ye visit me this blessed day?" Then he embraced them both and entreated them lovingly, saying to them, "I thought not that ye would have left me desolate by your absence nor that ye would have forborne to come and visit me and your mother." Said they, "By Allah, O our brother, we longed sore for thee and naught withheld us but abashment because of what befell between us and thee; but indeed we have repented much. 'Twas Satan's doing, the curse of Allah the Most High be upon him! And now we have no blessing but thyself and our mother."--And Shahrazad perceived the dawn of day and ceased to say her permitted say.
 When it was the Six Hundred and Eighth Night