,
She continued, It hath reached me, O auspicious King, that Judar said to the Maghribi, "I have on my neck a mother and two brothers, whose provider I am; and if I go with thee, who shall give them bread to eat?" Replied the Moor, "This is an idle excuse! if it be but a matter of expenditure, I will give thee a thousand ducats for thy mother, wherewith she may provide her self till thou come back: and indeed thou shalt return before the end of four months." So when Judar heard mention of the thousand diners, he said, "Here with them, O Pilgrim, and I am thy man;" and the Moor, pulling out the money, gave it to him, whereupon he carried it to his mother and told her what had passed between them, saying, "Take these thousand diners and expend of them upon thyself and my brothers, whilst I journey to Marocco with the Moor, for I shall be absent four months, and great good will betide me; so bless me, O my mother!" Answered she, "O my son, thou desolatest me and I fear for thee." "O my mother," rejoined he, "no harm can befall him who is in Allah's keeping, and the Maghribi is a man of worth;" and he went on to praise his condition to her. Quoth she, "Allah incline his heart to thee! Go with him, O my son; peradventure, he will give thee somewhat." So he took leave of his mother and rejoined the Moor Abd al-Samad, who asked him, "Hast thou consulted thy mother?" "Yes," answered Judar; "and she blessed me." "Then mount behind me," said the Maghribi. So Judar mounted the mule's crupper and they rode on from noon till the time of mid afternoon prayer, when the fisherman was an hungered; but seeing no victual with the Moor, said to him, "O my lord the pilgrim, belike thou hast forgotten to bring us aught to eat by the way?" Asked the Moor, "Art thou hungry?" and Judar answered, "Yes." So Abd al-Samad alighted and made Judar alight and take down the saddle bage; then he said to him, "What wilt thou have, O my brother?" "Anything." "Allah upon thee, tell me what thou hast a mind to." "Bread and cheese." "O my poor fellow! bread and cheese besit thee not; wish for some thing good." "Just now everything is good to me." "Dost thou like nice browned chicken?" "Yes!" "Dost thou like rice and honey?" "Yes!" And the Moor went on to ask him if he liked this dish and that dish till he had named four and twenty kinds of meats; and Judar thought to himself, "He must be daft! Where are all these dainties to come from, seeing he hath neither cook nor kitchen? But I'll say to him, ''Tis enough!'" So he cried, "That will do: thou makest me long for all these meats, and I see nothing." Quoth the Moor, "Thou art welcome, O Judar!" and, putting his hand into the saddle bags, pulled out a golden dish containing two hot browned chickens. Then he thrust his hand a second time and drew out a golden dish, full of kabobs; nor did he stint taking out dishes from saddle bags, till he had brought forth the whole of the four and twenty kinds he had named, whilst Judar looked on. Then said the Moor, "Fall to poor fellow!", and Judar said to him, "O my lord, thou carriest in yonder saddle bags kitchen and kitcheners!" The Moor laughed and replied, "These are magical saddle bags and have a servant, who would bring us a thousand dishes an hour, if we called for them." Quoth Judar, "By Allah, a meat thing in saddle bags'" Then they ate their fill and threw away what was left; after which the Moor replaced the empty dishes in the saddle bags and putting in his hand, drew out an ewer. They drank and making the Wuzu ablution, prayed the mid afternoon prayer; after which Abd al-Samad replaced the ewer and the two caskets in the saddle bags and throwing them over the mule's back, mounted and cried "Up with thee and let us be off," presently adding, "O Judar, knowest thou how far we have come since we left Cairo?" "Not I, by Allah," replied he, and Abd al-Samad, "We have come a whole month's journey." Asked Judar, "And how is that?"; and the Moor answered, "Know, O Judar, that this mule under us is a Marid of the Jinn who every day performeth a year's journey; but, for thy sake, she hath gone an easier pace." Then they set out again and fared on westwards till nightfall, when they halted and the Maghribi brought out supper from the saddle bags, and in like manner, in the morning, he took forth wherewithal to break their fast. So they rode on four days, journeying till midnight and then alighting and sleeping until morning, when they fared on again; and all that Judar had a mind to, he sought of the Moor, who brought it out of the saddle bags. On the fifth day, they arrived at Fez and Mequinez and entered the city, where all who met the Maghribi saluted him and kissed his hands; and he continued riding through the streets, till he came to a certain door, at which he knocked, whereupon it opened and out came a girl like the moon, to whom said he, "O my daughter, O Rahmah, open us the upper chamber." "On my head and eyes, O my papa!" replied she and went in, swaying her hips to and fro with a graceful and swimming gait like a thirsting gazelle, movements that ravished Judar's reason, and he said, "This is none other than a King's daughter." So she opened the upper chamber, and the Moor, taking the saddle bags from the mule's back, said, "Go, and God bless thee!" when lo! the earth clove asunder and swallowing the mule, closed up again as before. And Judar said, "O Protector! praised be Allah, who hath kept us in safety on her back!" Quoth the Maghribi, "Marvel not, O Judar. I told thee that the mule was an Ifrit; but come with us into the upper chamber." So they went up into it, and Judar was amazed at the profusion of rich furniture and pendants of gold and silver and jewels and other rare and precious things which he saw there. As soon as they were seated, the Moor bade Rahmah bring him a certain bundle and opening it, drew out a dress worth a thousand diners, which he gave to Judar, saying, "Don this dress, O Judar, and welcome to thee!" So Judar put it on and became a fair en sample of the Kings of the West. Then the Maghribi laid the saddle bags before him, and, putting in his hand, pulled out dish after dish, till they had before them a tray of forty kinds of meat, when he said to Judar, "Come near, O my master! eat and excuse us"--And Shahrazad perceived the dawn of day and ceased saying her permitted say,
 When it was the Six Hundred and Thirteenth Night