,
She said, It hath reached me, O auspicious King, that when the Wazir whispered the King, "Judar seeketh alliance with thee by taking thy daughter to wife," the other replied, "The dowry I have already received, and the girl is his handmaid: he will do me honour by accepting her." So they spent the rest of that night together and on the morrow the King held a court, to which he summoned great and small, together with the Shaykh al-Islam. Then Judar demanded the Princess in marriage and the King said, "The dowry I have received." Thereupon they drew up the marriage contract and Judar sent for the saddle bags containing the jewels and gave them to the King as settlement upon his daughter. The drums beat and the pipes sounded and they held high festival, whilst Judar went in unto the girl. Thenceforward he and the King were as one flesh and they abode thus for many days, till Shams al-Daulah died; whereupon the troops proclaimed Judar Sultan, and he refused; but they importuned him, till he consented and they made him King in his father in law's stead. Then he bade build a cathedral mosque over the late King's tomb in the Bundukaniyah quarter and endowed it. Now the quarter of Judar's house was called Yamaniyah; but, when he became Sultan he built therein a congregational mosque and other buildings, wherefore the quarter was named after him and was called the Judariyah quarter. Moreover, he made his brother Salim his Wazir of the right and his brother Salim his Wazir of the left hand; and thus they abode a year and no more; for, at the end of that time, Salim said to Salim, "O my brother, how long is this state to last? Shall we pass our whole lives in slavery to our brother Judar? We shall never enjoy luck or lordship whilst he lives," adding, "so how shall we do to kill him and take the ring and the saddle bags?" Replied Salim, "Thou art craftier than I; do thou devise, whereby we may kill him." "If I effect this," asked Salim, "wilt thou agree that I be Sultan and keep the ring and that thou be my right hand Wazir and have the saddle bags?" Salim answered, "I consent to this;" and they agreed to slay Judar their brother for love of the world and of dominion. So they laid a snare for Judar and said to him, "O our brother, verily we have a mind to glory in thee and would fain have thee enter our houses and eat of our entertainment and solace our hearts." Replied Judar, "So be it, in whose house shall the banquet be?" "In mine," said Salim "and after thou hast eaten of my victual, thou shalt be the guest of my brother." Said Judar, " 'Tis well," and went with him to his house, where he set before him poisoned food, of which when he had eaten, his flesh rotted from his bones and he died. Then Salim came up to him and would have drawn the ring from his finger, but it resisted him; so he cut off the finger with a knife. Then he rubbed the ring and the Marid presented himself, saying, "Adsum! Ask what thou wilt." Quoth Salim, "Take my brother Salim and put him to death and carry forth the two bodies, the poisoned and the slaughtered, and cast them down before the troops." So the Marid took Salim and slew him; then, carrying the two corpses forth, he cast them down before the chief officers of the army, who were sitting at table in the parlour of the house. When they saw Judar and Salim slain, they raised their hands from the food and fear get hold of them and they said to the Marid, "Who hath dealt thus with the Sultan and the Wazir Replied the Jinni, "Their brother Salim." And behold, Salim came up to them and said, "O soldiers, eat and make merry, for Judar is dead and I have taken to me the seal ring, whereof the Marid before you is the servant; and I bade him slay my brother Salim lest he dispute the kingdom with me, for he was a traitor and I feared lest he should betray me. So now I am become Sultan over you; will ye accept of me? If not, I will rub the ring and bid the Marid slay you all, great and small."--And Shahrazad perceived the dawn of day and ceased to say her permitted say.
When it was the Six Hundred and Twenty-fourth Night