,
She continued, It hath reached me, O auspicious King, that when Salim said to the officers, "Will ye accept me as your Sultan, otherwise I will rub the ring and the Marid shall slay you all, great and small?"; they replied, "We accept thee to King and Sultan." Then he bade bury his brothers and summoned the Divan; and some of the folk followed the funeral, whilst others forewent him in state procession to the audience hall of the palace, where he sat down on the throne and they did homage to him as King; after which he said, "It is my will to marry my brother Judar's wife." Quoth they, "Wait till the days of widowhood are accomplished. Quoth he, "I know not days of widowhood nor aught else. As my head liveth, I needs must go in unto her this very night." So they drew up the marriage contract and sent to tell the Princess Asiyah, who replied, "Bid him enter." Accordingly, he went in to her and she received him with a show of joy and welcome; but by and by she gave him poison in water and made an end of him. Then she took the ring and broke it, that none might possess it thenceforward, and tore up the saddle bags; after which she sent to the Shaykh al-Islam and other great officers of state, telling them what had passed and saying to them, "Choose you out a King to rule over you." And this is all that hath come down to us of the Story of Judar and his Brethren. But I have also heard, O King, a tale called the...
 There was once in olden time a King of might, Kundamir highs, who had been
  a brave and doughty man of war, a Kahraman, in his day, but was grown passing
  old and decrepit. Now it pleased Allah to vouchsafe him, in his extreme senility,
  a son, whom he named Ajib--the Wonderful--because of his beauty and loveliness;
  so he committed the babe to the midwives and wet- nurses and handmaids and
  serving-women, and they reared him till he was full seven years old, when his
  father gave him in charge to a divine of his own folk and faith. The priest
  taught him the laws and tenets of their Misbelief and instructed him in philosophy
  and all manner of other knowledge, and it needed but three full told years
  ere he was proficient therein and his spirit waxed resolute and his judgment
  mature; and he became learned, eloquent and philosophic; consorting with the
  wise and disputing with the doctors of the law. When his father saw this of
  him, it pleased him and he taught him to back the steed and stab with spear
  and smite with sword, till he grew to be an accomplished cavalier, versed in
  all martial exercises; and, by the end of his twentieth year, he surpassed
  in all things all the folk of his day. But his skill in weapons made him grow
  up a stubborn tyrant and a devil arrogant, using to ride forth a- hunting and
  a-chasing amongst a thousand horsemen and to make raids and razzias upon the
  neighbouring knights, cutting off caravans and carrying away the daughters
  of Kings and nobles; wherefore many brought complaints against him to his father,
 who cried out to five of his slaves and when they came said, "Seize this dog!" So they seized Prince Ajib and, pinioning his hands behind him, beat him by his father's command till he lost his senses; after which the King imprisoned him in a chamber so dark one might not know heaven from earth or length from breadth; and there he abode two days and a night. Then the Emirs went in to the King and, kissing the ground between his hands, interceded with him for the Prince, and he released him. So Ajib bore with his father for ten days, at the end of which he went in to him as he slept by night and smote his neck. When the day rose, he mounted the throne of his sire's estate and bade his men arm themselves cap-a-pie in steel and stand with drawn swords in front of him and on his right hand and on his left. By and by, the Emirs and Captains entered and finding their King slain and his son Ajib seated on the throne were confounded in mind and knew not what to do. But Ajib said to them, "O folk, verily ye see what your King hath gained. Whoso obeyeth me, I will honour him, and whoso gainsayeth me I will do with him that which I did with my sire." When they heard these words they feared lest he do them a mischief; so they replied, "Thou art our King and the son of our King;" and kissed ground before him; whereupon he thanked them and rejoiced in them. Then he bade bring forth money and apparel and clad them in sumptuous robes of honour and showered largesse upon them, wherefore they all loved him and obeyed him. In like manner he honoured the governors of the Provinces and the Shaykhs of the Badawin, both tributary and independent, so that the whole kingdom submitted to him and the folk obeyed him and he reigned and bade and forbade in peace and quiet for a time of five months. One Night, however, he dreamed a dream as he lay slumbering; whereupon he awoke trembling, nor did sleep visit him again till the morning. As soon as it was dawn he mounted his throne and his officers stood before him, right and left. Then he called the oneiromants and the astrologers and said to them "Expound to me my dream!" "What was the dream?" asked they; and he answered, "As I slept last Night, I saw my father standing before me, with his yard uncovered, and there came forth of it a thing the bigness of a bee, which grew till it became as a mighty lion, with claws like hangers. As I lay wondering at this lo! it ran upon me and smiting me with its claws, rent my belly in sunder; whereupon I awoke startled and trembling. So expound ye to me the meaning of this dream." The interpreters looked one at other; and, after considering, said, "O mighty King, this dream pointeth to one born of thy sire, between whom and thee shall befal strife and enmity, wherein he shall get the better of thee: so be on thy guard against him, by reason of this thy vision." When Ajib heard their words, he said, "I have no brother whom I should fear; so this your speech is mere lying." They replied, "We tell thee naught save what we know;" but he was an angered with them and bastinadoed them. Then he rose and, going in to the paternal palace, examined his father's concubines and found one of them seven months gone with child; whereupon he gave an order to two of his slaves, saying, "Take this damsel, ye twain, and carry her to the sea-shore and drown her." So they took her forthright and, going to the sea-shore, designed to drown her, when they looked at her and seeing her to be of singular beauty and loveliness said to each other, "Why should we drown this damsel? Let us rather carry her to the forest and live with her there in rare love-liasse." Then they took her and fared on with her days and nights till they had borne her afar off and had brought her to a bushy forest, abounding in fruit-trees and streams, where they both thought at the same time to win their will of her; but each said, "I will have her first." So they fell out one with the other concerning this, and while so doing a company of blackamoors came down upon them, and they drew their swords and both sides fell to laying on load. The mellay waxed hot with cut and thrust; and the two slaves fought their best; but the blacks slew them both in less than the twinkling of an eye. So the damsel abode alone and wandered about the forest, eating of its fruits and drinking of its founts, till in due time she gave birth to a boy, brown but clean limbed and comely, whom she named Gharib, the Stranger, by reason of her strangerhood. Then she cut his navel-string and wrapping him in some of her own clothes, gave him to suck, harrowed at heart, and with vitals sorrowing for the estate she had lost and its honour and solace. And Shahrazed perceived the dawn of day and ceased saying her permitted say,
 When it was the Six Hundred and Twenty-fifth Night