,
She said, It hath reached me, O auspicious King, that when Gharib became a Moslem and told the Shaykh his past, from first to last, till he came to the mention of the Mountain-Ghul whom he sought, the old man asked him, "O Gharib, art thou mad that thou goest forth against the Ghul of the Mountain single handed?"; and he answered, "O my lord, I have with me two hundred horse." "O Gharib," rejoined the hermit, "hadst thou ten thousand riders yet shouldest thou not prevail against him, for his name is The-Ghul- who-eateth-men-we-pray-Allah-for-safety, and he is of the children of Ham. His father's name was Hindi who peopled Hind and named it, and he left this son after him, whom he called Sa'adan the Ghul. Now the same was, O my son, even in his sire's lifetime, a cruel tyrant and a rebellious devil and had no other food than flesh of the sons of Adam. His father when about to die forbade him from this, but he would not be forbidden and he redoubled in his forwardness, till Hindi banished him and drove him forth the Land of Hind, after battles and sore travail. Then he came to this country and fortifying himself herein, established his home in this place, whence he is wont to sally forth and cut the road of all that come and go, presently returning to the valley he haunteth. Moreover, he hath begotten five sons, warlike warlocks, each one of whom will do battle with a thousand braves, and he hath flocked the valley with his booty of treasure and goods besides horses and camels and cattle and sheep. Wherefore I fear for thee from him; so do thou implore Almighty Allah to further thee against him by the Tahlil, the formula of Unity, and when thou drivest at the Infidels, cry, 'God is most Great!' for, saying, 'There is no god but the God' confoundeth those who misbelieve." Then the Shaykh gave him a steel mace, an hundred pounds in weight, with ten rings which clashed like thunder whenas the wielder brandished it, and a sword forged of a thunderbolt, three ells long and three spans broad, wherewith if one smote a rock, the stroke would cleave it in sunder. Moreover he gave him a hauberk and target and a book and said to him, "Return to thy tribe and expound unto them Al-Islam." So Gharib left him, rejoicing in his new Faith, and fared till he found his companions, who met him with salams, saying, "What made thee tarry thus?" Whereupon he related to them that which had befallen him and expounded to them Al-Islam, and they all islamised. Early next morning, Gharib mounted and rode to the hermit to farewell him, after which he set out to return to his camp when behold, on his way, there met him a horseman cap-a-pie armed so that only his eyes appeared, who made at him, saying, "Doff what is on thee, O scum of the Arabs; or I will do thee die!" Therewith Gharib crave at him and there befel between them a battle such as would make a new-born child turn grey and melt the flinty rock with its sore affray; but presently the Badawi did off his face-veil, and lo! it was Gharib's half- brother Sahim al-Layl. Now the cause of his coming thither was that when Gharib set out in quest of the Mountain-Ghul, Sahim was absent and on his return, not seeing his brother, he went in to his mother, whom he found weeping. He asked the reason of her tears and she told him what had happened of his brother's journey, whereupon, without allowing himself aught of rest, he donned his war-gear and mounting rode after Gharib, till he overtook him and there befel between them what befel. When, therefore. Sahim discovered his face, Gharib knew him and saluted him, saying, "What moved thee to do this?" Quoth Sahim, "I had a mind to measure myself with thee in the field and make trial of my lustihood in cut and thrust." Then they rode together and on the way Gharib expounded Al-Islam to Sahim, who embraced the Faith; nor did they cease riding till they were hard upon the valley. Meanwhile, the Mountain-Ghul espied the dust of their horses' feet and said to his sons, "O my sons, mount and fetch me yonder loot." So the five took horse and made for the party. When Gharib saw the five Amalekites approaching, he plied shovel-iron upon his steed's flank and cried out, saying, "Who are ye, and what is your race and what do ye require?" Whereupon Falhun bin Sa'adan, the eldest of the five, came out and said, "Dismount ye and bind one another and we will drive you to our father, that he may roast various of you and boil various, for it is long since he has tasted the flesh of Adam-son." When Gharib heard these words he drove at Falhun, shaking his mace, so that the rings rang like the roaring thunder and the giant was confounded. Then he smote him a light blow with the mace between the shoulders, and he fell to the ground like a tall-trunked palm- tree; whereupon Sahim and some of his men fell upon him and pinioned him; then, putting a rope about his neck, they haled him along like a cow. Now when his brothers saw him a prisoner they charged home upon Gharib, who took three of them captive and the fifth fled back to his sire, who said to him, "What is behind thee and where are the brothers of thee?" Quoth he "Verily, a beardless youth, forty cubits high, hath taken them prisoner." Quoth Sa'adan, "May the sun pour no blessing on you!" and, going down from his hold, tore up a huge tree, with which he went in quest of Gharib and his folk; and he was on foot, for that no horse might carry him, because of the bigness of his body. His son followed him and the twain went on till they came up with Gharib and his company, when the Ghul fell upon them, without word said, and slew five men with his club. Then he made at Sahim and struck at him with his tree, but Sahim avoided the blow and it fell harmless; whereat Sa'adan was wroth and throwing down the weapon, sprang upon Sahim and caught him in his pounces as the sparrow hawk catcheth up the sparrow. Now when Gharib saw his brother in the Ghul's clutches, he cried out, saying, "Allaho Akbar God is most Great! Oh the favour of Abraham the Friend, the Muhammad, the Blessed One (whom Allah keep and assain!)"- -And Shahrazad perceived the dawn of day and ceased saying her permitted say,
 When it was the Six Hundred and Twenty-ninth Night