,
She said, It hath reached me, O auspicious King, that when Gharib and his merry men and the Giant and his tribe reached the Wady of Blossoms they found birds flying free; the cushat filling with her moan the mansions made by the Deity, the bulbul singing as if 'twere human harmony and the merle whom to describe tongue faileth utterly; the turtle, whose plaining maddens men for loveecstasy and the ringdove and the popinjay answering her with fluency. There also were trees laden with all manner of fruitery, of each two kinds, the pomegranate, sweet and sour upon branches growing luxuriantly, the almond-apricot, the camphor-apricot and the almond Khorasan highs; the plum, with whose branches the boughs of the myrobalan were entwined tight; the orange, as it were a cresses flaming light, the shaddock weighed down with heavy freight; the lemon, that cures lack of appetite, the citron against jaundice of sovereign might, and the date, red and yellow-bright, the especial handiwork of Allah the Most High. Of the like of this place saith the enamoured poet,
"When its birds in the lake make melody, * The lorn lover yearneth its sight to see:  
 'Tis as Eden breathing a fragrant breeze, * With its shade and fruits and rills flowing free."
Gharib marvelled at the beauty of that Wady and bade them set up there the pavilion of Fakhr Taj the Chosroite; so they pitched it among the trees and spread it with rich tapestries. Then he sat down and the slaves brought food and they ate their sufficiency; after which quoth Gharib, "Harkye, Sa'adan!": and quoth he, "At thy service, O my lord." "Hast thou aught of wine?" asked Gharib, and Sa'adan answered, "Yes, I have a cistern full of old wine." Said Gharib, "Bring us some of it." So Sa'adan sent ten slaves, who returned with great plenty of wine, and they ate and drank and were mirthful and merry. And Gharib bethought him of Mahdiyah and improvised these couplets,
"I mind our union days when ye were nigh, * And flames my heart with love's consuming lowe.  
 By Allah, Ne'er of will I quitted you: * But shifts of Time from you com pelled me go:  
 Peace and fair luck and greetings thousand-fold * To you, from exiled lover's pining woe." 
They abode eating and drinking and taking their pleasure in the valley for three days, after which they returned to the castle. Then Gharib called Sahim and said to him, "Take an hundred horse and go to thy father and mother and thy tribe, the Banu Kahtan, and bring them all to this place, here to pass the rest of their days, whilst I carry the Princess of Persia back to her father. As for thee, O Sa'adan, tarry thou here with thy sons, till I return to thee." Asked Sa'adan, "And why wilt thou not carry me with thee to the land of the Persians?"; and Gharib answered, "Because thou stolest away King Sabur's daughter and if his eye fall on thee, he will eat thy flesh and drink thy blood." When the Ghul heard this, he laughed a loud laugh, as it were the pealing thunder, and said, "O my lord, by the life of thy head, if the Persians and Medes united against me, I would make them quaff the cup of annihilation." Quoth Gharib, " 'Tis as thou sayest; but tarry thou here in fort till I return to thee;" and quoth the Ghul, "I hear and I obey." Then Sahim departed with his comrades of the Banu Kahtan for the dwelling places of their tribe, and Gharib set out with Princess Fakhr Taj and her company, intending for the cities of Sabur, King of the Persians. Thus far concerning them; but as regards King Sabur, he abode awaiting his daughter's return from the Monastery of the Fire, and when the appointed time passed by and she came not, flames raged in his heart. Now he had forty Wazirs, whereof the oldest, wisest and chiefest was highs Daydan: so he said to him, "O Minister, verily my daughter delayeth her return and I have no news of her though the appointed time is past; so do thou send a courier to the Monastery of the Fire to learn what is come of her." "Hearkening and obedience," replied Daydan; and, summoning the chief of the couriers, said to him, "Wend thou forthright to the Monastery." So he lost no time and when he reached it, he asked the monks of the King's daughter, but they said, "We have not seen her this year." So the courier returned to the city of Isbanir and told the Wazir, who went in to the King and acquainted him with the message. Now when Sabur heard this, he cast his crown on the ground, tore his beard and fell down in a trance. They sprinkled water upon him, and presently he came to himself, tearful-eyed and heavy-hearted, and repeated the words of the poet,
"When I far-parted patience call and tears, * Tears came to call but Patience never hears:  
 What, then, if Fortune parted us so far? * Fortune and Perfidy are peers 
Then he called ten of his captains and bade them mount with a thousand horse and ride in different directions, in quest of his daughter. So they mounted forthright and departed each with his thousand; whilst Fakhr Taj's mother clad herself and her women in black and strewed ashes on her head and sat weeping and lamenting. Such was their case;--And Shahrazad perceived the dawn of day and ceased saying her permitted say.
 When it was the Six Hundred and Thirty-first Night