,
She said, It hath reached me, O auspicious King, that Nuzhat al- Zaman continued, "It is related that Omar passed by a flock of sheep, kept by a Mameluke, and asked him to sell him a sheep. He answered, 'They are not mine.' 'Thou art the man I sought,' said Omar, and bought him and freed him; whereupon the slave exclaimed, 'O Allah, as thou hast bestowed on me the lesser emancipation; so vouchsafe me the greater!' It is also said that Omar bin al- Khattab was wont to give his servants sweet milk and himself eat coarse fare, and to clothe them softly and himself wear rough garments. He rendered unto all men their due, and exceeded in his giving to them. He once gave a man four thousand dirhams and added thereto a thousand, wherefore it was said to him, 'Why dost thou not increase to thy son as thou increasest to this man?' He answered, 'This man's father stood firm at the battle day of Ohod.' Al-Hasan relates that Omar once came back from foray with much money, and that Hafsah approached him and said, 'O Commander of the Faithful, the due of kinship!' 'O Hafsah!' replied he, 'verily Allah hath enjoined us to satisfy the dues of kinship, but not with the monies of the True Believers. Indeed, thou pleasest" thy family, but thou angerest thy father.' And she went away trailing her skirts. The son of Omar said, 'I implored the Lord to show me my father one year after his death, till at last I saw him wiping the sweat from his brow and asked him, 'How is it with thee, O my father?' He answered, 'But for my Lord's mercy thy father surely had perished.' Then said Nuzhat al-Zaman, "Hear, O auspicious King, the second division of the first chapter of the instances of the followers of the Apostle and other holy men. Saith Al Hasan al-Basri, Not a soul of the sons of Adam goeth forth of the world without regretting three things,- failure to enjoy what he hath amassed, failure to compass what he hoped, failure to provide himself with sufficient viaticum for that hereto he goeth. It was said of Sufyan, 'Can a man be a religious and yet possess wealth?' He replied, 'Yes, so he be patient when grieved and be thankful when he hath received.' Abdullah bin Shaddad, being about to die, sent for his son Mohammed and admonished him, saying, 'O my son, I see the Summoner of Death summoning me, and so I charge thee to fear Allah both in public and private, to praise Allah and to be soothfastin thy speech, for such praise bringeth increase of prosperity, and piety in itself is the best of provision for the next world; even as saith one of the poets,
'I see not happiness lies in gathering gold; * The man most pious is man happiest:  
   In truth the fear of God is best of stores, * And God shall make the pious choicely blest.'
Then quoth Nuzhat al-Zaman, "Let the King also give ear to these notes from the second section of the first chapter." He asked her 'What be they?'; and she answered, "When Omar bin Abd al-Aziz succeeded to the Caliphate, he went to his household and laying hands on all that was in their hold, put it into the public treasury. So the Banu Umayyah flew for aid to his father's sister, Fatimah, daughter of Marwan, and she sent to him saying, 'I must needs speak to thee.' So she came to him by night and, when he had made her alight from her beast and sit down, he said to her, 'O aunt, it is for thee to speak first, since thou hast some thing to ask: tell me then what thou wouldst with me.' Replied she, 'O Commander of the Faithful, it is thine to speak first, for thy judgment perceiveth that which is hidden from the intelligence of others.' Then said Omar, 'Of a verity Allah Almighty sent Mohammed as a blessing to some and a bane to others; and He elected for him those with him, and commissioned him as His Apostle and took him to Himself,'--And Shahrazad perceived the dawn of day and ceased saying her permitted say.
When it was the Sixty-fifth Night