,
She said, It hath reached me, O auspicious King, that Nuzhat al- Zaman said to her brother Sharrkan and the four Kazis, "Here endeth the second section of the first chapter. And it so happened that Omar bin Abd al-Aziz wrote to the people of the festival at Meccah as follows, 'I call Allah to witness, in the Holy Month, in the Holy City and on the day of the Greater Pilgrimage, that I am innocent of your oppression and of his wrongs that doth wrong you, in that I have neither commanded this nor purposed it, neither hath any report of aught thereof hitherto reached me, nor have I compassed any knowledge thereof; and I trust that a cause for pardon will be found in that none hath authority from me to oppress any man, for I shall assuredly be questioned concerning every one oppress. And if any of my officers swerve from the right and act otherwise than the Holy Book and the Traditions of the Apostle do authorise, obey him not so that he may return to the way of righteousness.' He said also (Allah accept of him!), 'I do not wish to be relieved from death, because it is the supreme thing for which the True Believer is rewarded.' Quoth one of authority, 'I went to the Prince of the Faithful, Omarbin Abd al-Aziz, who was then Caliph, and saw before him twelve dirhams, which he ordered for deposit in the public treasury. So I said to him, 'O Commander of the Faithful, thou impoverishest thy children and reducest them to beggary having nothing whereon to live. An thou wouldst appoint somewhat by will to them and to those who are poor of the people of thy house, it were well.' 'Draw near to me,' answered he: so I drew near to him and he said, 'Now as for thy saying, 'Thou beggarest thy children; provide for them and for the poor of thy household,' it is without reason; for Allah of a truth will replace me to my children and to the poor of my house, and He will be their guardian. Verily, they are like other men; he who feareth Allah, right soon will Allah provide for him a happy issue, and he that is addicted to sins, I will not up hold him in his sin against Allah.' Then he summoned his sons who numbered twelve, and when he beheld them his eyes dropped tears and presently he said to them, 'Your Father is between two things; either ye will be well to do, and your parent will enter the fire, or ye will be poor and your parent will enter Paradise; and your father's entry into Paradise is liefer to him than that ye should be well to do. So arise and go, Allah be your helper, for to Him I commit your affairs!' Khalid bin Safwan said, 'Yusuf bin Omar accompanied me to Hisham bin Abd al-Malik, and as I met him he was coming forth with his kinsmen and attendants. He alighted and a tent was pitched for him. When the people had taken their seats, I came up to the side of the carpet whereon he sat reclining and looked at him; and, waiting till my eyes met his eyes, bespoke him thus, 'May Allah fulfil His bounty to thee, O Commander of the Faithful, I have an admonition for thee, which hath come down to us from the history of the Kings preceding thee!' At this, he sat up whenas he had been reclining and said to me, 'Bring what thou hast, O son of Safwan!' Quoth I, 'O Commander of the Faithful, one of the Kings before thee went forth in a time before this thy time, to this very country and said to his companions, 'Saw ye ever any state like mine and say me, hath such case been given to any man even as it hath been given unto me?' Now there was with him a man of those who survive to bear testimony to Truth; upholders of the Right and wayfarers in its highway, and he said to him, 'O King, thou askest of a grave matter. Wilt thou give me leave to answer?' 'Yes,' replied the King, and the other said, 'Dost thou judge thy present state to be short lasting or ever lasting?' 'It is temporary,' replied the King. 'How then,' rejoined the man, 'do I see thee exulting in that which thou wilt enjoy but a little while and whereof thou wilt be questioned for a long while and for the rendering an account whereof thou shalt be as a pledge which is pawned?' Quoth the King, 'Whither shall I flee and what must I seek for me?' 'That thou abide in thy kingship,' replied the other, 'or else robe thee in rags and apply thyself to obey Almighty Allah thy Lord until thine appointed hour. I will come to thee again at daybreak.' Khalid bin Safwan further relates that the man knocked at the door at dawn and behold, the King had put off his crown and resolved to become an anchorite, for the stress of his exhortation. When Hisham bin Abd al-Malik heard this, he wept till his beard was wet, and, bidding his rich apparel be put off, shut himself up in his palace. Then the grandees and dependents came to Khalid and said, 'What is this thou hast done with the Commander of the Faithful? Thou hast troubled his pleasure and disturbed his life!' Then quoth Nuzhat al-Zaman, addressing herself to Sharrkan, "How many instances of admonition are there not in this chapter! Of a truth I cannot report all appertaining to this head in a single sitting,"--And Shahrazad perceived the dawn of day and ceased to say her permitted say. 
When it was the Sixty-seventh Night