,
She continued, It hath reached me, O auspicious King, that when the Moslem host mounted and rode to the plain of cut and thrust, the first to open the door of war was King Gharib who, drawing his sword Al-Mahik, drove his charger between the two ranks and cried out, saying, "Whoso knoweth me hath enough of my mis chief and whoso unknoweth me, to him I will make myself known. I am Gharib, King of Al-Irak and Al-Yaman, brother of Ajib." When Ra'ad Shah, son of the King of Hind, heard this, he shouted to his captains, "Bring me Ajib." So they brought him and Ra'ad Shah said to him, "Thou wottest that this quarrel is thy quarrel and thou art the cause of all this slaughter. Now yonder standeth thy brother Gharib amiddle-most the fightfield and stead where sword and spear we shall wield; go thou to him and bring him to me a prisoner, that I may set him on a camel arsy-versy, and make a show of him and carry him to the land of Hind." Answered Ajib, "O King, send out to him other than I, for I am in ill-health this morning." But Ra'ad Shah sparked and snorted and cried, "By the virtue of the sparkling Fire and the light and the shade and the heat, unless thou fare forth to thy brother and bring him to me in haste, I will cut off thy head and make an end of thee." So Ajib took heart and urging his horse up to his brother in mid-field, said to him, "O dog of the Arabs and vilest of all who hammer down tent pegs, wilt thou contend with Kings? Take what to thee cometh and receive the glad tidings of thy death." When Gharib heard this, he said to him, "Who art thou among the Kings? And Ajib answered, saying, "I am thy brother, and this day is the last of thy worldly days." Now when Gharib was assured that he was indeed his brother Ajib, he cried out and said, "Ho, to avenge my father and mother!" Then giving his sword to Kaylajan, he crave at Ajib and smote him with his mace a smashing blow and a swashing, that went nigh to beat in his ribs, and seizing him by the mail gorges tore him from the saddle and cast him to the ground; whereupon the two Marids pounced upon him and binding him fast, dragged him off dejected and abject; whilst Gharib rejoiced in the capture of his enemy and repeated these couplets of the poet, 
"I have won my wish and my need have scored * Unto Thee be the praise and the thanks, O our Lord!  
 I grew up dejected and abject; poor, * But Allah vouchsafed me all boons implored:  
 I have conquered countries and mastered men * But for Thee were I naught, O thou Lord adored!"
When Ra'ad Shah saw how evilly Ajib fared with his brother, he called for his charger and donning his harness and habergeon, mounted and dashed out a field. As soon as he drew near King Gharib, he cried out at him, saying, "O basest of Arabs and bearer of scrubs, who art thou, that thou shouldest capture Kings and braves? Down from thy horse and put elbows behind back and kiss my feet and set my warriors free and go with me in bond of chains to my reign that I may pardon thee and make thee a Shayth in our own land, so mayst thou eat there a bittock of bread." When Gharib heard these words he laughed till he fell backwards and answered, saying, "O mad hound and mangy wolf, soon shalt thou see against whom the shifts of Fortune will turn!" Then he cried out to Sahim, saying, "Bring me the prisoners; so he brought them, and Gharib smote off their heads whereupon Ra'ad Shah crave at him, with the driving of a lordly champion and the onslaught of a fierce slaughterer and they falsed and feinted and fought till nightfall, when the kettle-drums beat the retreat.--And Shahrazad perceived the dawn of day and ceased saying her permitted say.
 When it was the Six Hundred and Sixty-third Night