,
She continued, It hath reached me, O auspicious King, that when Gharib caught Murad Shah by the ears and well nigh tore them off he cried, "I yield myself to thy mercy, O Knight of the Age!" So Gharib bound him, and the Marids his comrades would have charged and rescued him, but Gharib fell on them with a thousand Marids and was about to smite them down, when they cried out "Quarter! Quarter!" and threw away their arms. Then Gharib returned to his Shahmiyanah which was of green silk, embroidered with red gold and set with pearls and gems; and, seating himself on his throne, called for Murad Shah. So they brought him, shuffling in his manacles and shackles. When the prisoner saw him, he hung down his head for shame; and Gharib said to him, "O dog of the Arabs, who art thou that thou shouldst ride forth and measure thyself against kings?" Replied Murad Shah, "O my lord, reproach me not, for indeed I have excuse." Quoth Gharib, "What manner of excuse hast thou?"; And quoth he, "Know, O my lord, that I came out to avenge my mother and my father on Sabur, King of the Persians; for he would have slain them; but my mother escaped and I know not whether he killed my father or not." When Gharib heard these words, he replied, "By Allah, thou art indeed excusable! But who were thy father and mother and what are their names?" Murad Shah said, "My sire was Gharib, King of Al-Irak, and my mother Fakhr Taj, daughter of King Sabur of Persia." When Gharib heard this, he gave a great cry and fell down fainting. They sprinkled rose- water on him, till he came to himself, when he said to Murad Shah, "Art thou indeed Gharib's son by Fakhr Taj?"; and he replied, "Yes." Cried Gharib, "Thou art a champion, the son of a champion. Loose my child!" And Sahim and Kaylajan went up to Murad Shah and set him free. Then Gharib embraced his son and, seating him beside himself, said to him, "Where is thy mother?" "She is with me in my tent," answered Murad Shah; and Gharib said, "Bring her to me." So Murad Shah mounted and repaired to his camp, where his comrades met him, rejoicing in his safety, and asked him of his case; but he answered, "This is no time for questions." Then he went in to his mother and told her what had passed whereat she was gladdened with exceeding gladness: so he carried her to Gharib, and they two embraced and rejoiced in each other. Then Fakhr Taj and Murad Shah islamised and expounded The Faith to their troops, who all made profession with heart and tongue. After this, Gharib sent for Sabur and his son Ward Shah, and upbraided them for their evil dealing and expounded Al-Islam to them; but they refused to profess wherefore he crucified them on the gate of the city and the people decorated the town and held high festival. Then Gharib crowned Murad Shah with the crown of the Chosroes and made him King of the Persians and Turks and Medes; moreover, he made his uncle Al-Damigh, King over Al-Irak, and all the peoples and lands submitted themselves to Gharib. Then he abode in his kingship, doing justice among his lieges, wherefore all the people loved him, and he and his wives and comrades ceased not from all solace of life, till there came to them the Destroyer of Delights and Sunderer of Societies, and extolled be the perfection of Him whose glory endureth for ever and aye and whose boons embrace all His creatures! This is every thing that hath come down to us of the history of Gharib and Ajib. And Abdullah bin Ma'amar al Kaysi hath thus related the tale of...
 I went one year on the pilgrimage to the Holy House of Allah, and when I had
  accomplished my pilgrimage, I turned back for visitation of the tomb of the
  Prophet, whom Allah bless and keep! One night, as I sat in the garden, between
  the tomb and the pulpit, I heard a low moaning in a soft voice; so I listened
 to it and it said,
"Have the doves that moan in the lotus-tree * Woke grief in thy heart and bred misery?  
 Or doth memory of maiden in beauty deckt * Cause this doubt in thee, this despondency?  
 O night, thou art longsome for love-sick sprite * Complaining of Love and its ecstacy:  
 Thou makest him wakeful, who burns with fire * Of a love, like the live coal's ardency.  
 The moon is witness my heart is held * By a moonlight brow of the brightest blee:  
 I reckt not to see me by Love ensnared * Till ensnared before I could reck or see."
 Then the voice ceased and not knowing whence it came to me I abode perplexed; but lo! it again took up its lament and recited,
"Came Rayya's phantom to grieve thy sight * In the thickest gloom of the black-haired Night!  
 And hath love of slumber deprived those eyes * And the phantom-vision vexed thy sprite?  
 I cried to the Night, whose glooms were like * Seas that surge and billow with might, with might:  
 'O Night, thou art longsome to lover who * Hath no aid nor help save the morning light!'  
 She replied, 'Complain not that I am long: * 'Tis love is the cause of thy longsome plight!'"
Now, at the first of the couplets, I sprang up and made for the quarter whence the sound came, nor had the voice ended repeating them, ere I was with the speaker and saw a youth of the utmost beauty, the hair of whose side face had not sprouted and in whose cheeks tears had worn twin trenches.--And Shahrazad perceived the dawn of day and ceased saying her permitted say.
 When it was the Six Hundred and Eighty-first Night