,
She continued, It hath reached me, O auspicious King, that when Yunus the Scribe said to Walid, "Allah forbid I should repent over her! Had I made gift of her to the Prince, she were the least of gifts that are given to him, nor indeed is she worthy of his rank," Walid rejoined, "By Allah, but I repented me of having carried her away from thee and said to myself, 'This man is a stranger and knoweth me not, and I have taken him by surprise and acted inconsiderately by him, in my haste to take the damsel!' Dost thou recall what passed between us?" Quoth Yunus, "Yes!" and quoth Walid, "Dost thou sell this damsel to me for fifty thousand dirhams?" And Yunus said, "I do." Then the Prince called to one of his servants to bring him fifty thousand dirhams and a thousand and five hundred dinars to boot, and gave them all to Yunus, saying, "Take the slave's price: the thousand dinars are for thy fair opinion of us and the five hundred are for thy viaticum and for what present thou shalt buy for thy people. Art thou content?" "I am content," answered Yunus and kissed his hands, saying, "By Allah, thou hast filled my eyes and my hands and my heart!" Quoth Walid, "By Allah, I have as yet had no privacy of her nor have I taken my fill of her singing. Bring her to me!" So she came and he bade her sit, then said to her, "Sing." And she sang these verses,
"O thou who dost comprise all Beauty's boons! * O sweet of nature, fain of coquetry!  
 In Turks and Arabs many beauties dwell; * But, O my fawn, in none thy charms I see.  
 Turn to thy lover, O my fair, and keep * Thy word, though but in visioned phantasy:  
 Shame and disgrace are lawful for thy sake * And wakeful nights full fill with joy and glee:  
 I'm not the first for thee who fared distraught; * Slain by thy love how many a many be!  
 I am content with thee for worldly share * Dearer than life and good art thou to me!"
When he heard this, he was delighted exceedingly and praised Yunus for his excellent teaching of her and her fair education. Then he bade his servants bring him a roadster with saddle and housings for his riding, and a mule to carry his gear, and said to him, "O Yunus, when it shall reach thee that command hath come to me, do thou join me; and, by Allah, I will fill thy hands with good and advance thee to honour and make thee rich as long as thou livest!" So Yunus said, "I took his goods and went my ways; and when Walid succeeded to the Caliphate, I repaired to him; and by Allah, he kept his promise and entreated me with high honour and munificence. Then I abode with him in all content of case and rise of rank and mine affairs prospered and my wealth increased and goods and farms became mine, such as sufficed me and will suffice my heirs after me; nor did I cease to abide with Walid, till he was slain, the mercy of Almighty Allah be on him!" And men tell a tale concerning...
 The Caliph Harun al-Rashid was walking one day with Ja'afar the Barmecide,
  when he espied a company of girls drawing water and went up to them, having
  a mind to drink. As he drew near, one of them turned to her fellows and improvised
 these lines,
"Thy phantom bid thou fleet, and fly * Far from the couch whereon I lie;  
 So I may rest and quench the fire, * Bonfire in bones aye flaming high;  
 My love-sick form Love's restless palm * Rolls o'er the rug whereon I sigh:  
 How 'tis with me thou wottest well * How long, then, union wilt deny?"
The Caliph marvelled at her elegance and eloquence.--And Shahrazad perceived the dawn of day and ceased to say her permitted say.
 When it was the Six Hundred and Eighty-sixth Night