,
She continued, It hath reached me, O auspicious King, that when the Shaykh said to Abu Ishak, "If thou wilt sing something more we will requite thee," I dissembled my annoyance (continued Ibrahim) and, taking the lute, sang again with great attention to my singing and rising altogether thereto, in consideration of his saying, "We will requite thee." He was delighted, and cried, "Well done, O my lord!"; presently adding, "Dost thou give me leave to sing?" "As thou wilt," answered I, deeming him weak of wit, in that he should think to sing in my presence, after that which he had heard from me. So he took the lute and swept the strings, and by Allah, I fancied they spoke in Arabic tongue, with a sweet and liquid and murmurous voice; then he began and sang these couplets,
"I bear a hurt heart, who will sell me for this * A heart whole and free from all canker and smart?  
 Nay, none will consent or to barter or buy * Such loss, ne'er from sorrow and sickness to part:  
 I groan wi' the groaning of wine-wounded men * And pine for the pining ne'er freeth my heart."
And by Allah, meseemed the doors and the walls and all that was in the house answered and sang with him, for the beauty of his voice, so that I fancied my very limbs and clothes replied to him, and I abode amazed and unable to speak or move, for the trouble of my heart. Then he sang these couplets,
"Culvers of Liwa! to your nests return; * Your mournful voices thrill this heart of mine  
 Then back a-copse they flew, and well-nigh took * My life and made me tell my secret pine.  
 With cooing call they one who's gone, as though * Their breasts were maddened with the rage of wine:  
 Ne'er did mine eyes their like for culvers see * Who weep yet tear-drops never dye their eyne."
And also these couplets,
"O Zephyr of Najd, when from Najd thou blow, * Thy breathings heap only new woe on woe!  
 The turtle bespake me in bloom of morn * From the cassia-twig an the willow-bough  
 She moaned with the moaning of love-sick youth * And exposed love-secret I ne'er would show:  
 They say lover wearies of love when near * And is cured of love an afar he go:  
 I tried either cure which ne'er cured my love; * But that nearness is better than farness I know:  
 Yet,--the nearness of love shall no 'vantage prove * An whoso thou lovest deny thee of love."
Then said he, "O Ibrahim, sing this song after me, and preserving the mode thereof in thy singing, teach it to thy slave-girls." Quoth I, "Repeat it to me." But he answered, "There needs no repetition; thou hast it by heart nor is there more to learn." Then he suddenly vanished from my sight. At this I was amazed and running to my sword drew it and made for the door of the Harim, but found it closed and said to the women, "What have ye heard?" Quoth they, "We have heard the sweetest of singing and the goodliest." Then I went forth amazed, to the house-door and, finding it locked, questioned the doorkeepers of the old man. They replied, "What old man? By Allah, no one hath gone in to thee this day!" So I returned pondering the matter, when, behold, there arose from one of the corners of the house, a Vox et praeterea nihil, saying, "O Abu Ishak, no harm shall befal thee. 'Tis I, Abu Murrah, who have been thy cup-companion this day, so fear nothing!" Then I mounted and rode to the palace, where I told Al-Rashid what had passed, and he said, "Repeat to me the airs thou heardest from him." So I took the lute and played and sang them to him; for, behold, they were rooted in my heart. The Caliph was charmed with them and drank thereto, albeit he was no confirmed wine-bibber, saying, "Would he would some day pleasure us with his company, as he hath pleasured thee!" Then he ordered me a present and I took it and went away. And men relate this story anent...
 Quoth Masrur the Eunuch, "The Caliph Harun Al-Rashid was very wakeful one night and said to me, 'See which of the poets is at the door to-night.' So I went out and finding Jamil bin Ma'amar al-Uzri in the antechamber, said to him, 'Answer the Commander of the Faithful.' Quoth he, 'I hear and I obey,' and going in with me, saluted the Caliph, who returned his greeting and bade him sit down. Then he said to him, 'O, Jamil, hast thou any of thy wonderful new stories to tell us?' He replied, 'Yes, O Commander of the Faithful: wouldst thou fainer hear that which I have seen with mine eyes or that which I have only heard?' Quoth the Caliph, 'Tell me something thou hast actually beheld.' Quoth Jamil, ''Tis well, O Prince of True Believers; incline thy heart to me and lend me thine ears.' The Caliph took a bolster of red brocade, purfled with gold and stuffed with ostrich-feathers and, laying it under his thighs, propped up both elbows thereon; then he said to Jamil, 'Now for thy tale, O Jamil!' Thereupon he begun, 'Know, O Commander of the Faithful, that I was once desperately enamoured of a certain girl and used to pay her frequent visits.'"--And Shahrazad perceived the dawn of day and ceased saying her permitted say.
 When it was the Six Hundred and Eighty-ninth Night