,
She said, It hath reached me, O auspicious King, that when Jamil advised the elopement and night journey, promising his aid as long as he lived, the youth accepted and said, "O cousin, wait till I take counsel with her, for she is quick-witted and prudent and hath insight into affairs." So (continued Jamil) when the night darkened and the hour of her coming arrived, and he awaiting her at the appointed tide, she delayed beyond her usual time, and I saw him go forth the door of the tent and opening his mouth, inhale the wafts of breeze that blew from her quarter, as if to snuff her perfume, and he repeated these two couplets:--
"Breeze of East who bringest me gentle air * From the place of sojourn where dwells my fair:  
 O Breeze, of the lover thou bearest sign, * Canst not of her coming some signal bear?"
Then he entered the tent and sat weeping awhile; after which he said to me, "O my cousin, some mischance must have betided the daughter of mine uncle, or some accident must have hindered her from coming to me this night," presently adding, "But abide where thou art, till I bring thee the news." And he took sword and shield and was absent a while of the night, after which he returned, carrying something in hand and called aloud to me. So I hastened to him and he said, "O my cousin, knowest thou what hath happened?" I replied, "No, by Allah!" Quoth he, "Verily, I am distraught concerning my cousin this night; for, as she was coming to me, a lion met her in the way and devoured her, and there remaineth of her but what thou seest." So saying, he threw down what he had in his hand, and behold, it was the damsel's turband and what was left of her bones. Then he wept sore and casting down his bow, took a bag and went forth again saying, "Stir not hence till I return to thee, if it please Almighty Allah." He was absent a while and presently returned, bearing in his hand a lion's head, which he threw on the ground and called for water. So I brought him water, with which he washed the lion's mouth and fell to kissing it and weeping; and he mourned for her exceedingly and recited these couplets,
"Ho thou lion who broughtest thyself to woe, * Thou art slain and worse sorrows my bosom rend!  
 Thou hast reft me of fairest companionship, * Made her home Earth's womb till the world shall end.  
 To Time, who hath wrought me such grief, I say, * 'Allah grant in her stead never show a friend!'"
Then said he to me, "O cousin, I conjure thee by Allah and the claims of kindred and consanguinity between us, keep thou my charge. Thou wilt presently see me dead before thee; whereupon do thou wash me and shroud me and these that remain of my cousin's bones in this robe and bury us both in one grave and write thereon these two couplets,
'On Earth surface we lived in rare ease and joy * By fellowship joined in one house and home.  
 But Fate with her changes departed us, * And the shroud conjoins us in Earth's cold womb.'"
Then he wept with sore weeping and, entering the tent, was absent awhile, after which he came forth, groaning and crying out. Then he gave one sob and departed this world. When I saw that he was indeed dead, it was grievous to me and so sore was my sorrow for him that I had well-nigh followed him for excess of mourning over him. Then I laid him out and did as he had enjoined me, shrouding his cousin's remains with him in one robe and laying the twain in one grave. I abode by their tomb three days, after which I departed and continued to pay frequent pious visits to the place for two years. This then is their story, O Commander of the Faithful! Al-Rashid was pleased with Jamil's story and rewarded him with a robe of honour and a handsome present. And men also tell a tale concerning...
 Caliph Mu'awiyah was sitting one day in his palace at Damascus, in a room
  whose windows were open on all four sides, that the breeze might enter from
  every quarter. Now it was a day of excessive heat, with no breeze from the
  hills stirring, and the middle of the day, when the heat was at its height,
  and the Caliph saw a man coming along, scorched by the heat of the ground and
  limping, as he fared on barefoot. Mu'awiyah considered him awhile and said
 to his courtiers, "Hath Allah (may He be extolled and exalted!) created any miserabler than he who need must hie abroad at such an hour and in such sultry tide as this?" Quoth one of them, "Haply he seeketh the Commander of the Faithful;" and quoth the Caliph, "By Allah, if he seek me, I will assuredly give to him, and if he be wronged, I will certainly succour him. Ho, boy! Stand at the door, and if yonder wild Arab seek to come in to me, forbid him not therefrom." So the page went out and presently the Arab came up to him and he said, "What dost thou want?" Answered the other, "I want the Commander of the Faithful," and the page said, "Enter." So he entered and saluted the Caliph,--And Shahrazad perceived the dawn of day and ceased to say her permitted say.
 When it was the Six Hundred and Ninety-second Night