,
She pursued, It hath reached me, O auspicious King, that the Wazir Abu Amir, when presented with the beautiful slave girl, feared lest it come to the Conquering King's ears and that the like should happen as with the boy, so he made up a present still costlier than the first and sent it with her to his master, accompanying it with these couplets,
"My lord, this be the Sun, the Moon thou hadst before; * So the two greater lights now in thy Heaven unite:  
 Conjunction promising to me prosperity, * And Kausar draught to thee and Eden's long delight.  
 Earth shows no charms, by Allah, ranking as their third, * Nor King who secondeth our Conquering King in might."
Wherefore his credit redoubled with al-Nasir; but, after a while, one of his enemies maligned him to the King, alleging that there still lurked in him a hot lust for the boy and that he ceased not to desire him, whenever the cool northern breezes moved him, and to gnash his teeth for having given him away. Cried the King, "Wag not thou thy tongue at him, or I will shear off thy head." However, he wrote Abu Amir a letter, as from the boy. to the following effect: "O my lord, thou knowest that thou wast all and one to me and that I never ceased from delight with thee. Albeit I am with the Sultan, yet would I choose rather solitude with thee, but that I fear the King's majesty: wherefore devise thou to demand me of him." This letter he sent to Abu Amir by a little foot page, whom he enjoined to say, "This is from such an one: the King never speaketh to him." When the Wazir read the letter and heard the cheating message, he noted the poison draught and wrote on the back of the note these couplets,
"Shall man experience-lectured ever care * Fool-like to thrust his head in lion's lair?  
 I'm none of those whose wits to love succumb * Nor witless of the snares my foes prepare:  
 Wert thou my sprite, I'd give thee loyally; * Shall sprite, from body sundered, backwards fare?"
When al-Nasir knew of this answer, he marvelled at the Wazir's quickness of wit and would never again lend ear to aught of insinuations against him. Then said he to him, "How didst thou escape falling into the net?" And he replied, "Because my reason is unentangled in the toils of passion." And they also tell a tale of...
 There lived in the time of Harun al-Rashid a man named Ahmad al-Danaf and
  another Hasan Shuman hight, the twain past-masters in fraud and feints, who
  had done rare things in their day; wherefore the Caliph invested them with
  caftans of honour and made them Captains of the Watch for Baghdad (Ahmad of
  the right hand and Hasan of the left hand); and appointed to each of them a
  stipend of a thousand dinars a month and forty stalwart men to be at their
  bidding. Moreover to Calamity Ahmad was committed the watch of the district
  outside the walls. So Ahmad and Hasan went forth in company of the Emir Khalid,
  the Wali or Chief of Police, attended each by his forty followers on horse-back,
 and preceded by the Crier, crying aloud and saying, "By command of the Caliph! None is captain of the watch of the right hand but Ahmad al- Danaf and none is captain of the watch of the left hand but Hasan Shuman, and both are to be obeyed when they bid and are to be held in all honour and worship." Now there was in the city an old woman called Dalilah the Wily, who had a daughter by name Zaynab the Coney-catcher. They heard the proclamation made and Zaynab said to Dalilah, "See, O my mother, this fellow, Ahmad al-Danaf! He came hither from Cairo, a fugitive, and played the double-dealer in Baghdad, till he got into the Caliph's company and is now become captain of the right hand, whilst that mangy chap Hasan Shuman is captain of the left hand, and each hath a table spread morning and evening and a monthly wage of a thousand dinars; whereas we abide unemployed and neglected in this house, without estate and without honour, and have none to ask of us." Now Dalilah's husband had been town-captain of Baghdad with a monthly wage of one thousand dinars; but he died leaving two daughters, one married and with a son by name Ahmad al- Lakit or Ahmad the Abortion; and the other called Zaynab, a spinster. And this Dalilah was a past mistress in all manner of craft and trickery and double dealing; she could wile the very dragon out of his den and Iblis himself might have learnt deceit of her. Her father had also been governor of the carrier-pigeons to the Caliph with a solde of one thousand dinars a month. He used to rear the birds to carry letters and messages, wherefore in time of need each was dearer to the Caliph than one of his own sons. So Zaynab said to her mother, "Up and play off some feint and fraud that may haply make us notorious"--And Shahrazad perceived the dawn of day and ceased saying her permitted say. 
 When it was the Six Hundred and Ninety-ninth Night