,
She continued, It hath reached me, O auspicious King, that when report of this reached the Prince he went in to his sire the King and, kissing ground between his hands, said, "O mighty King, trouble not thy soul with aught of this thing and levy not thy champions and armies neither spend thy monies. Thou art stronger than he, and if thou loose upon him this thy host, thou wilt lay waste his cities and dominions and spoil his good and slay his strong men and himself; but when his daughter shall come to know what hath befallen her father and his people by reason of her, she will slay herself, and I shall die on her account; for I can never live after her; no, never." Asked the King, "And what then thinkest thou to do, O my son?" and the Prince answered, "I will don a merchant's habit and cast about how I may win to the Princess and compass my desire of her." Quoth Sayf al-A'azam, "Art thou determined upon this?"; and quoth the Prince, "Yes, O my sire;" whereupon the King called to his Wazir, and said to him, "Do thou journey with my son, the core of my heart, and help him to win his will and watch over him and guide him with thy sound judgment, for thou standest to him even in my stead." "I hear and obey," answered the Minister; and the King gave his son three hundred thousand dinars in gold and great store of jewels and precious stones and goldsmiths' ware and stuffs and other things of price. Then Prince Ardashir went in to his mother and kissed her hands and asked her blessing. She blessed him and, forthright opening her treasures, brought out to him necklaces and trinkets and apparel and all manner of other costly objects hoarded up from the time of the bygone Kings, whose price might not be evened with coin. Moreover, he took with him of his Mamelukes and negro-slaves and cattle all that he needed for the road and clad himself and the Wazir and their company in traders' gear. Then he farewelled his parents and kinsfolk and friends; and, setting out, fared on over wolds and wastes all hours of the day and watches of the night; and whenas the way was longsome upon him he improvised these couplets,
"My longing bred of love with mine unease for ever grows; * Nor against all the wrongs of time one succourer arose:  
 When Pleiads and the Fishes show in sky the rise I watch, * As worshipper within whose breast a pious burning glows:  
 For Star o' Morn I speer until at last when it is seen, * I'm madded with my passion and my fancy's woes and throes:  
 I swear by you that never from your love have I been loosed; * Naught am I save a watcher who of slumber nothing knows!  
 Though hard appear my hope to win, though languor aye increase, * And after thee my patience fails and ne'er a helper shows;  
 Yet will I wait till Allah shall be pleased to join our loves; * I'll mortify the jealous and I'll mock me of my foes."
When he ended his verse he swooned away and the Wazir sprinkled rose-water on him, till the Prince came to himself, when the Minister said to him, "O King's son, possess thy soul in patience; for the consequence of patience is consolation, and behold, thou art on the way to whatso thou wishest." And he ceased not to bespeak him fair and comfort him till his trouble subsided; and they continued their journey with all diligence. Presently, the Prince again became impatient of the length of the way and bethought him of his beloved and recited these couplets,
"Longsome is absence, restlessness increaseth and despite; * And burn my vitals in the blaze my love and longings light:  
 Grows my hair gray from pains and pangs which I am doomed bear * For pine, while tear-floods stream from eyes and sore offend my sight:  
 I swear, O Hope of me, O End of every wish and will, * By Him who made mankind and every branch with leafage dight,  
 A passion-load for thee, O my Desire, I must endure, * And boast I that to bear such load no lover hath the might.  
 Question the Night of me and Night thy soul shall satisfy * Mine eyelids never close in sleep throughout the livelong night."
Then he wept with sore weeping and 'plained of that he suffered for stress of love-longing; but the Wazir comforted him and spoke him fair, promising him the winning of his wish; after which they fared on again for a few days, when they drew near to the White City, the capital of King Abd al-Kadir, soon after sunrise. Then said the Minister to the Prince, "Rejoice, O King's son, in all good; for see, yonder is the White City, that which thou seekest." Whereat the Prince rejoiced with exceeding joy and recited these couplets,
"My friends, I yearn in heart distraught for him; * Longing abides and with sore pains I brim:  
 I mourn like childless mother, nor can find * One to console me when the light grows dim;  
 Yet when the breezes blow from off thy land, * I feel their freshness shed on heart and limb;  
 And rail mine eyes like water-laden clouds, * While in a tear-sea shed by heart I swim."
Now when they entered the White City they asked for the Merchants' Khan, a place of moneyed men; and when shown the hostelry they hired three magazines and on receiving the keys they laid up therein all their goods and gear. They abode in the Khan till they were rested, when the Wazir applied himself to devise a device for the Prince,--And Shahrazad perceived the dawn of day and ceased saying her permitted say.
 When it was the Seven Hundred and Twenty-first Night