,
She said, It hath reached me, O auspicious King, that when the old woman took that letter from Hayat al-Nufus she fared forth till she found the youth who was sitting in his shop and gave it to him, saying, "Read thine answer and know that when she perused thy paper she was wroth with exceeding wrath; but I soothed her and spake her fair, till she consented to write thee a reply." He took the letter joyfully but, when he had read it and understood its drift, he wept sore, whereat the old woman's heart ached and she cried, "O my son, Allah never cause thine eyes to weep nor thy heart to mourn! What can be more gracious than that she should answer thy letter when thou hast done what thou diddest?" He replied, "O my mother what shall I do for a subtle device? Behold, she writeth to me, threatening me with death and crucifixion and forbidding me from writing to her; and I, by Allah, see my death to be better than my life; but I beg thee of thy grace to carry her another letter from me." She said, "Write and I warrant I'll bring thee an answer. By Allah, I will assuredly venture my life to win for thee thy wish, though I die to pleasure thee!" He thanked her and kissing her hands, wrote these verses,
"Do you threaten me wi' death for my loving you so well? * When Death to me were rest and all dying is by Fate?  
 And man's death is but a boon, when so longsome to him grows * His life, and rejected he lives in lonest state:  
 Then visit ye a lover who hath ne'er a soul to aid; * For on pious works of men Heaven's blessing shall await.  
 But an ye be resolved on this deed then up and on; * I'm in bonds to you, a bondsman confined within your gate:  
 What path have I whose patience without you is no more? * How is this, when a lover's heart in stress of love is strait?  
 O my lady show me ruth, who by passion am misused; * For all who love the noble stand for evermore excused."
He then folded the scroll and gave it to the old woman, together with two purses of two hundred dinars, which she would have refused, but he conjured her by oath to accept of them. So she took them both and said, "Needs must I bring thee to thy desire, despite the noses of thy foes." Then she repaired to the palace and gave the letter to Hayat al-Nufus who said, "What is this, O my nurse? Here are we in a correspondence and thou coming and going! Indeed, I fear lest the matter get wind and we be disgraced." Rejoined the old woman, "How so, O my lady? Who dare speak such word?" So she took the letter and after reading and understanding it she smote hand on hand, saying "Verily, this is a calamity which is fallen upon us, and I know not whence this young man came to us!" Quoth the old woman, "O my lady, Allah upon thee, write him another letter; but be rough with him this time and say to him, 'An thou write me another word after this, I will have thy head struck off.'" Quoth the Princess, "O my nurse, I am assured that the matter will not end on such wise; 'twere better to break off this exchange of letters; and, except the puppy take warning by my previous threats, I will strike off his head." The old woman said, "Then write him a letter and give him to know this condition." So Hayat al-Nufus called for pen-case and paper and wrote these couplets,
'Ho, thou heedless of Time and his sore despight! * Ho, thou heart whom hopes of my favours excite!  
 Think O pride-full! would'st win for thyself the skies? * Would'st attain to the moon shining clear and bright?  
 I will burn thee with fire that shall ne'er be quenched, * Or will slay thee with scymitar's sharpest bite!  
 Leave it, friend, and 'scape the tormenting pains, * Such as turn hair- partings from black to white.  
 Take my warning and fly from the road of love; * Draw thee back from a course nor seemly nor right!"
Then she folded the scroll and gave it to the old woman, who was puzzled and perplexed by the matter. She carried it to Ardashir, and the Prince read the letter and bowed his head to the earth, making as if he wrote with his finger and speaking not a word. Quoth the old woman, "How is it I see thee silent stay and not say thy say?"; and quoth he, "O my mother, what shall I say, seeing that she doth but threaten me and redoubleth in hard- heartedness and aversion?" Rejoined the nurse, "Write her a letter of what thou wilt: I will protect thee; nor let thy heart be cast down, for needs must I bring you twain together." He thanked her for her kindness and kissing her hand, wrote these couplets,
"A heart, by Allah! never soft to lover-wight, * Who sighs for union only with his friends, his sprite!  
 Who with tear-ulcered eyelids evermore must bide, * When falleth upon earth first darkness of the night:  
 Be just, be gen'rous, lend thy ruth and deign give alms * To love-molested lover, parted, forced to flight!  
 He spends the length of longsome night without a doze; * Fire-brent and drent in tear-flood flowing infinite:  
 Ah; cut not off the longing of my fondest heart * Now disappointed, wasted, flutt'ring for its blight."
Then he folded the scroll and gave it to the old woman, together with three hundred dinars, saying, "This is for the washing of thy hands." She thanked him and kissed his hands, after which she returned to the palace and gave the letter to the Princess, who took it and read it and throwing it from her fingers, sprang to her feet. Then she walked, shod as she was with pattens of gold, set with pearls and jewels, till she came to her sire's palace, whilst the vein of anger started out between her eyes, and none dared ask her of her case. When she reached the palace, she enquired for the King, and the slave-girls and concubines replied to her, "O my lady, he is gone forth a-hunting and sporting." So she returned, as she were a rending lioness, and bespake none for the space of three hours, when her brow cleared and her wrath cooled. As soon as the old woman saw that her irk and anger were past, she went up to her and, kissing ground between her hands, asked her, "O my lady, whither went those noble steps?" The Princess answered, "To the palace of the King my sire." "And could no one do thine errand?" enquired the nurse. Replied the Princess, "No, for I went to acquaint him of that which hath befallen me with yonder cur of a merchant, so he might lay hands on him and on all the merchants of his bazar and crucify them over their shops nor suffer a single foreign merchant to tarry in our town." Quoth the old woman, "And was this thine only reason, O my lady, for going to thy sire?"; and quoth Hayat al-Nufus, "Yes, but I found him absent a-hunting and sporting and now I await his return." Cried the old nurse, "I take refuge with Allah, the All hearing, the All knowing! Praised be He! O my lady, thou art the most sensible of women and how couldst thou think of telling the King these fond words, which it behoveth none to publish?" Asked the Princess, "And why so?" and the nurse answered, "Suppose thou had found the King in his palace and told him all this tale and he had sent after the merchants and commanded to hang them over their shops, the folk would have seen them hanging and asked the reason and it would have been answered them, 'They sought to seduce the King's daughter.'" --And Shahrazad perceived the dawn of day and ceased to say her permitted say.
 When it was the Seven Hundred and Twenty-fourth Night