,
She continued, It hath reached me, O auspicious King, that the old woman said to the Princess, "Suppose thou had told this to the King and he had ordered the merchants to be hanged, would not folk have seen them and have asked the cause of the execution when the answer would have been, 'They sought to seduce the King's daughter?' Then would they have dispread divers reports concerning thee, some saying, 'She abode with them ten days, away from her palace, till they had taken their fill of her'; and other some in otherguise: for woman's honour, O my lady, is like ourded milk, the least dust fouleth it; and like glass, which, if it be cracked, may not be mended. So beware of telling thy sire or any other of this matter, lest thy fair fame be smirched, O mistress mine, for 'twill never profit thee to tell folk aught; no, never! Weigh what I say with thy keen wit, and if thou find it not just, do whatso thou wilt." The Princess pondered her words, and seeing them to be altogether profitable and right, said, "Thou speaketh sooth, O my nurse; but anger had blinded my judgment." Quoth the old woman, "Thy resolve to tell no one is pleasing to the Almighty; but something remaineth to be done: we must not let the shamelessness of yonder vile dog of a merchant pass without notice. Write him a letter and say to him 'O vilest of traders, but that I found the King my father absent, I had straightway commanded to hang thee and all thy neighbours. But thou shalt gain nothing by this; for I swear to thee, by Allah the Most High, that an thou return to the like of this talk, I will blot out the trace of thee from the face of earth!' And deal thou roughly with him in words, so shalt thou discourage him in this attempt and arouse him from his heedlessness." "And will these words cause him to abstain from his offending?" asked the Princess; and the old woman answered, "How should he not abstain? Besides, I will talk with him and tell him what hath passed." So the Princess called for ink-case and paper and wrote these couplets,
"To win our favours still thy hopes are bent; * And still to win thy will art confident!  
 Naught save his pride-full aim shall slay a man; * And he by us shall die of his intent  
 Thou art no lord of might, no chief of men, * Nabob or Prince or Soldan Heaven-sent;  
 And were this deed of one who is our peer, * He had returned with hair for fear white-sprent:  
 Yet will I deign once more excuse thy sin * So from this time thou prove thee penitent."
Then she gave the missive to the old woman, saying, "O my nurse, do thou admonish this puppy lest I be forced to cut off his head and sin on his account." Replied the old woman, "By Allah, O my lady, I will not leave him a side to turn on!" Then she returned to the youth and, when salams had been exchanged, she gave him the letter. He read it and shook his head, saying, "Verily, we are Allah's and unto him shall we return!" adding, "O my mother, what shall I do? My fortitude faileth me and my patience palleth upon me!" She replied, "O my son, be long- suffering: peradventure, after this Allah shall bring somewhat to pass. Write that which is in thy mind and I will fetch thee an answer, and be of good cheer and keep thine eyes cool and clear; for needs must I bring about union between thee and her,-- Inshallah!" He blessed her and wrote to the Princess a note containing these couplets,
"Since none will lend my love a helping hand, * And I by passion's bale in death low-lain,  
 I bear a flaming fire within my heart * By day and night nor place of rest attain,  
 How cease to hope in thee, my wishes' term? * Or with my longings to be glad and fain?  
 The Lord of highmost Heaven to grant my prayer * Pray I, whom love of lady fair hath slain;  
 And as I'm clean o'erthrown by love and fear, * To grant me speedy union deign, oh deign!"
Then he folded the scroll and gave it to the old woman, bringing out at the same time a purse of four hundred dinars. She took the whole and returning to the palace sought the Princess to whom she gave the letter; but the King's daughter refused to take it and cried, "What is this?" Replied the old woman, "O my lady, this is only the answer to the letter thou sentest to that merchant dog." Quoth Hayat al-Nufus, "Didst thou forbid him as I told thee?"; and quoth she, "Yes, and this is his reply." So the Princess took the letter and read it to the end; then she turned to the old woman and exclaimed, "Where is the result of thy promise?" "O my lady, saith he not in his letter that he repenteth and will not again offend, excusing himself for the past?" "Not so, by Allah!: on the contrary, he increaseth." "O my lady, write him a letter and thou shalt presently see what I will do with him." "There needeth nor letter nor answer." "I must have a letter that I may rebuke him roughly and cut off his hopes." "Thou canst do that without a letter." "I cannot do it without the letter." So Hayat al-Nufus called for pen-case and paper and wrote these verses,
"Long have I chid thee but my chiding hindereth thee not * How often would my verse with writ o' hand ensnare thee, ah!  
 Then keep thy passion hidden deep and ever unrevealed, * And if thou dare gainsay me Earth shall no more bear thee, ah!  
 And if, despite my warning, thou dost to such words return, * Death's Messenger shall go his rounds and dead declare thee, ah!  
 Soon shall the wold's fierce chilling blast o'erblow that corse o' thine; * And birds o' the wild with ravening bills and beaks shall tear thee, ah!  
 Return to righteous course; perchance that same will profit thee; * If bent on wilful aims and lewd I fain forswear thee, ah!"
When she had made an end of her writing this, she cast the writ from her hand in wrath, and the old woman picked it up and went with it to Ardashir. When he read it to the last he knew that she had not softened to him, but only redoubled in rage against him and that he would never win to meet her, so he bethought himself to write her an answer invoking Allah's help against her. Thereupon he indited these couplets,
"O Lord, by the Five Shaykhs, I pray deliver me * From love, which gars me bear such grief and misery.  
 Thou knowest what I bear for passion's fiery flame; * What stress of sickness for that merciless maid I dree.  
 She hath no pity on the pangs to me decreed; * How long on weakly wight shall last her tyranny?  
 I am distraught for her with passing agonies * And find no friend, O folk! to hear my plaint and plea.  
 How long, when Night hath drooped her pinions o'er the world, * Shall I lament in public as in privacy?  
 For love of you I cannot find forgetfulness; * And how forget when Patience taketh wings to flee?  
 O thou wild parting-bird say is she safe and sure * From shift and change of time and the world's cruelty?"
Then he folded the scroll and gave it to the old woman, adding a purse of five hundred dinars; and she took it and carried it to the Princess, who read it to the end and learned its purport. Then, casting it from her hand, she cried, "Tell me O wicked old woman, the cause of all that hath befallen me from thee and from thy cunning and thine advocacy of him, so that thou hast made me write letter after letter and thou ceasest not to carry messages, going and coming between us twain, till thou hast brought about a correspondence and a connection. Thou leavest not to say, 'I will ensure thee against his mischief and cut off from thee his speech'; but thou speakest not thus save only to the intent that I may continue to write thee letters and thou to fetch and carry between us, evening and morning, till thou ruin my repute. Woe to thee! Ho, eunuchs, seize her!" Then Hayat al-Nufus commanded them to beat her, and they lashed her till her whole body flowed with blood and she fainted away, whereupon the King's daughter caused her slave-women to drag her forth by the feet and cast her without the palace and bade one of them stand by her head till she recovered, and say to her, "The Princess hath sworn an oath that thou shalt never return to and re-enter this palace; and she hath commanded to slay thee without mercy an thou dare return hither." So, when she came to herself, the damsel told her what the King's daughter said and she answered, "Hearkening and obedience." Presently the slave-girls fetched a basket and a porter whom they caused carry her to her own house; and they sent after her a physician, bidding him tend her assiduously till she recovered. He did what he was told to do and as soon as she was whole she mounted and rode to the shop of Ardashir who was concerned with sore concern for her absence and was longing for news of her. As soon as he saw her, he sprang up and coming to meet her, saluted her; then he noticed that she was weak and ailing; so he questioned her of her case and she told him all that had befallen her from her nursling. When he heard this, he found it grievous and smote hand upon hand, saying, "By Allah, O my mother, this that hath betided thee straiteneth my heart! But, what, O my mother, is the reason of the Princess's hatred to men?" Replied the old woman, "Thou must know O my son, that she hath a beautiful garden, than which there is naught goodlier on earth's face and it chanced that she lay there one night. In the joyance of sleep, she dreamt a dream and 'twas this, that she went down into the garden, where she saw a fowler set up his net and strew corn thereabout, after which he withdrew and sat down afar off to await what game should fall into it. Ere an hour had passed the birds flocked to pick up the corn and a male pigeon fell into the net and struggled in it, whereat all the others took fright and fled from him. His mate was amongst them, but she returned to him after the shortest delay; and, coming up to the net, sought out the mesh wherein his foot was entangled and ceased not to peck at it with her bill, till she severed it and released her husband, with whom she flew away. All this while, the fowler sat dozing, and when he awoke, he looked at the net and found it spoilt. So he mended it and strewed fresh grain, then withdrew to a distance and sat down to watch it again. The birds soon returned and began to pick up the corn, and among the rest the pair of pigeons. Presently, the she-pigeon fell into the net and struggled to get free; whereupon all the other birds flew away, and her mate, whom she had saved, fled with the rest and did not return to her. Meantime, sleep had again overcome the fowler; and, when he awoke after long slumbering, he saw the she-pigeon caught in the net; so he went up to her and freeing her feet from the meshes, cut her throat. The Princess startled by the dream awoke troubled, and said, 'Thus do men with women, for women have pity on men and throw away their lives for them, when they are in difficulties; but if the Lord decree against a woman and she fall into calamity, her mate deserteth her and rescueth her not, and wasted is that which she did with him of kindness. Allah curse her who putteth her trust in men, for they ill requite the fair offices which women do them!' And from that day she conceived an hatred to men." Said the King's son, "O my mother, doth she never go out into the highways?"; and the old woman replied, "Nay, O my son; but I will tell thee somewhat wherein, Allah willing, there shall be profit for thee. She hath a garden which is of the goodliest pleasaunces of the age; and every year, at the time of the ripening of the fruits, she goeth thither and taketh her pleasure therein only one day, nor layeth the night but in her pavilion. She entereth the garden by the private wicket of the palace which leadeth thereto; and thou must know that it wanteth now but a month to the time of her going forth. So take my advice and hie thee this very day to the keeper of that garden and make acquaintance with him and gain his good graces, for he admitteth not one of Allah's creatures into the garth, because of its communication with the Princess's palace. I will let thee know two days beforehand of the day fixed for her coming forth, when do thou repair to the garden, as of thy wont, and make shift to night there. When the King's daughter cometh be thou hidden in some place or other";--And Shahrazad perceived the dawn of day and ceased saying her permitted say.
When it was the Seven Hundred and Twenty-fifth Night