,
She resumed, It hath reached me, O auspicious King, that when Prince Ardashir, who lay hid in the garden, saw the Princess and her nurse walking amongst the trees, he swooned away for very love-longing. When he came to himself Hayat al-Nufus had passed from his sight and was hidden from him among the trees; so he sighed from his heart-core and improvised these couplets,
"Whenas mine eyes behold her loveliness, * My heart is torn with love's own ecstasy.  
 I wake o'erthrown, castdown on face of earth * Nor can the Princess my sore torment see.  
 She turned and ravished this sad Love-thrall'd sprite; * Mercy, by Allah, ruth; nay, sympathy!  
 O Lord, afford me union, deign Thou soothe * My soul, ere grave-niche house this corse of me;  
 I'll kiss her ten times ten times, and times ten * For lover's wasted cheek the kisses be!"
The old woman ceased not to lead the Princess a-pleasuring about the garden, till they reached the place where the Prince lay ambushed, when, behold she said, "O Thou whose bounties are hidden, vouchsafe us assurance from that we fear!" The King's son hearing the signal, left his lurking-place and, surprised by the summons, walked among the trees, swaying to and fro with a proud and graceful gait and a shape that shamed the branches. His brow was crowned with pearly drops and his cheeks red as the afterglow, extolled be Allah the Almighty in that He hath created! When the King's daughter caught sight of him, she gazed a long while on him and noticed his beauty and grace and loveliness and his eyes that wantoned like the gazelle's, and his shape that outvied the branches of the myrobalan; wherefore her wits were confounded and her soul captivated and her heart transfixed with the arrows of his glances. Then she said to the old woman, "O my nurse, whence came yonder handsome youth?"; and the nurse asked, "Where is he, O my lady?" "There he is," answered Hayat al-Nufus; "near hand, among the trees." The old woman turned right and left, as if she knew not of his presence, and cried, "And pray, who can have taught this youth the way into this garden?" Quoth Hayat al-Nufus, "Who shall give us news of the young man? Glory be to Him who created men! But say me, dost thou know him, O my nurse?" Quoth the old woman, "O my lady, he is the young merchant who wrote to thee by me." The Princess (and indeed she was drowned in the sea of her desire and the fire of her passion and love-longing) broke out, "O my nurse, how goodly is this youth! Indeed he is fair of favour. Methinks, there is not on the face of earth a goodlier than he!" Now when the old woman was assured that the love of him had gotten possession of the Princess, she said to her, "Did I not tell thee, O my lady, that he was a comely youth with a beaming favour?" Replied Hayat al-Nufus, "O my nurse, King's daughters know not the ways of the world nor the manners of those that be therein, for that they company with none, neither give they nor take they. O my nurse, how shall I do to bring about a meeting and present myself to him, and what shall I say to him and what will he say to me?" Said the old woman, "What device is left me? Indeed, we were confounded in this matter by thy behaviour"; and the Princess said, "O my nurse, know thou that if any ever died of passion, I shall do so, and behold, I look for nothing but death on the spot by reason of the fire of my love-longing." When the old woman heard her words and saw the transport of her desire for him, she answered, "O my lady, now as for his coming to thee, there is no way thereto; and indeed thou art excused from going to him, because of thy tender age; but rise with me and follow me. I will accost him: so shalt thou not be put to shame, and in the twinkling of an eye affection shall ensue between you." The King's daughter cried, "Go thou before me, for the decree of Allah may not be rejected." Accordingly they went up to the place where Ardashir sat, as he were the full moon at its fullest, and the old woman said to him, "See O youth, who is present before thee! 'Tis the daughter of our King of the age, Hayat al-Nufus: bethink thee of her rank and appreciate the honour she doth thee in coming to thee and rise out of respect for her and stand before her." The Prince sprang to his feet in an instant and his eyes met her eyes, whereupon they both became as they were drunken without wine. Then the love of him and desire redoubled upon the Princess and she opened her arms and he his, and they embraced; but love-longing and passion overcame them and they swooned away and fell to the ground and lay a long while without sense. The old woman, fearing scandalous exposure, carried them both into the pavilion, and, sitting down at the door, said to the two waiting-women, "Seize the occasion to take your pleasure in the garden, for the Princess sleepeth." So they returned to their diversion. Presently the lovers revived from their swoon and found themselves in the pavilion, whereat quoth the Prince, "Allah upon thee, O Princess of fair ones, is this vision or sleep-illusion?" Then the twain embraced and intoxicated themselves without wine, complaining each to other of the anguish of passion; and the Prince improvised these couplets,
"Sun riseth sheen from her brilliant brow, * And her cheek shows the rosiest afterglow:  
 And when both appear to the looker-on, * The skyline star ne'er for shame will show:  
 An the leven flash from those smiling lips, * Morn breaks and the rays dusk and gloom o'erthrow.  
 And when with her graceful shape she sways, * Droops leafiest Ban-tree for envy low:  
 Me her sight suffices; naught crave I more: * Lord of Men and Morn, be her guard from foe!  
 The full moon borrows a part of her charms; * The sun would rival but fails his lowe.  
 Whence could Sol aspire to that bending grace? * Whence should Luna see such wit and such mind-gifts know?  
 Who shall blame me for being all love to her, * 'Twixt accord and discord aye doomed to woe:  
 'Tis she won my heart with those forms that bend * What shall lover's heart from such charms defend?"
--And Shahrazad perceived the dawn of day and ceased to say her permitted say.
 When it was the Seven Hundred and Thirty-second Night