,
She said, It hath reached me, O auspicious King, that when the Prince had made an end of his verses, the Princess strained him to her bosom and kissed him on the mouth and between the eyes; whereupon his soul returned to him and he fell to complaining to her of that he had endured for stress of love and tyranny of longing and excess of transport and distraction and all he had suffered for the hardness of her heart. Hearing those words she kissed his hands and feet and bared her head, whereupon the gloom gathered and the full moons dawned therein. Then said she to him, "O my beloved and term of all my wishes, would the day of estrangement had never been and Allah grant it may never return between us!" And they embraced and wept together, whilst she recited these couplets,
"O who shamest the Moon and the sunny glow: * Thou whose slaught'ring tyranny lays me low;  
 With the sword of a look thou hast shorn my heart, * How escape thy sword-glance fatal of blow?  
 Thus eke are thine eyebrows a bow that shot * My bosom with shafts of fiercest lowe:  
 From thy cheeks' rich crop cometh Paradise; * How, then, shall my heart the rich crop forego?  
 Thy graceful shape is a blooming branch, * And shall pluck the fruits who shall bear that bough.  
 Perforce thou drawest me, robst my sleep; * In thy love I strip me and shameless show:  
 Allah lend thee the rays of most righteous light, * Draw the farthest near and a tryst bestow:  
 Then have ruth on the vitals thy love hath seared, * And the heart that flies to thy side the mo'e!"
And when she ended her recitation, passion overcame her and she was distraught for love and wept copious tears, rain-like streaming down. This burnt the Prince's heart and he in turn became troubled and distracted for love of her. So he drew nearer to her and kissed her hands and wept with sore weeping and they ceased not from lover-reproaches and converse and versifying, until the call to mid-afternoon prayer (nor was there aught between them other than this), when they bethought them of parting and she said to him, "O light of mine eyes and core of my heart, the time of severance has come between us twain: when shall we meet again?" "By Allah," replied he (and indeed her words shot him as with shafts), "to mention of parting I am never fain!" Then she went forth of the pavilion, and he turned and saw her sighing sighs would melt the rock and weeping shower-like tears; whereupon he for love was sunken in the sea of desolation and improvised these couplets,
"O my heart's desire! grows my misery * From the stress of love, and what cure for me?  
 By thy face, like dawn when it lights the dark, * And thy hair whose hue beareth night-tide's blee,  
 And thy form like the branch which in grace inclines * To Zephyr's breath blowing fain and free,  
 By the glance of thine eyes like the fawn's soft gaze, * When she views pursuer of high degree,  
 And thy waist down borne by the weight of hips, * These so heavy and that lacking gravity,  
 By the wine of thy lip-dew, the sweetest of drink, * Fresh water and musk in its purity,  
 O gazelle of the tribe, ease my soul of grief, * And grant me thy phantom in sleep to see!"
Now when she heard his verses in praise of her, she turned back to him and embracing him, with a heart on fire for the anguish of severance, fire which naught save kisses and embraces might quench, cried, "Sooth the byword saith, Patience is for a lover and not the lack thereof. There is no help for it but I contrive a means for our reunion." Then she farewelled him and fared forth, knowing not where she set her feet, for stress of her love; nor did she stay her steps till she found herself in her own chamber. When she was gone, passion and love-longing redoubled upon the young Prince and the delight of sleep was forbidden him, and the Princess in her turn tasted not food and her patience failed and she sickened for desire. As soon as dawned the day, she sent for the nurse, who came and found her condition changed and she cried, "Question me not of my case; for all I suffer is due to thy handiwork. Where is the beloved of my heart?" "O my lady, when did he leave thee? Hath he been absent from thee more than this night?" "Can I endure absence from him an hour? Come, find some means to bring us together speedily, for my soul is like to flee my body." "O my lady, have patience till I contrive thee some subtle device, whereof none shall be ware." "By the Great God, except thou bring him to me this very day, I will tell the King that thou hast corrupted me, and he will cut off thy head!" "I conjure thee, by Allah, have patience with me, for this is a dangerous matter!" And the nurse humbled herself to her, till she granted her three days' delay, saying, "O my nurse, the three days will be three years to me; and if the fourth day pass and thou bring him not, I will go about to slay thee." So the old woman left her and returned to her lodging, where she abode till the morning of the fourth day, when she summoned the tirewomen of the town and sought of them fine dyes and rouge for the painting of a virgin girl and adorning; and they brought her cosmetics of the best. Then she sent for the Prince and, opening her chest, brought out a bundle containing a suit of woman's apparel, worth five thousand dinars, and a head-kerchief fringed with all manner gems. Then said she to him, "O my son, hast thou a mind to foregather with Hayat al-Nufus?"; and he replied, "Yes." So she took a pair of tweezers and pulled out the hairs of his face and pencilled his eyes with Kohl. Then she stripped him and painted him with Henna from his nails to his shoulders and from his insteps to his thighs and tattooed him about the body, till he was like red roses upon alabaster slabs. After a little, she washed him and dried him and bringing out a shift and a pair of petticoat-trousers made him put them on. Then she clad him in the royal suit aforesaid and, binding the kerchief about his head, veiled him and taught him how to walk, saying, "Advance thy left and draw back thy right." He did her bidding and forewent her, as he were a Houri faring abroad from Paradise. Then said she to him, "Fortify thy heart, for thou art going to the King's palace, where there will without fail be guards and eunuchs at the gate; and if thou be startled at them and show doubt or dread, they will suspect thee and examine thee, and we shall both get into grievous trouble and haply lose our lives: wherefore an thou feel thyself unable to this, tell me." He answered, "In very sooth this thing hath no terrors for me, so be of good cheer and keep thine eyes cool and clear." Then she went out preceding him till the twain came to the palace-gate, which was full of eunuchs. She turned and looked at him, as much as to say, "Art thou troubled or no?" and finding him all unchanged, went on. The chief eunuch glanced at the nurse and knew her but, seeing a damsel following her, whose charms confounded the reason, he said in his mind, "As for the old woman, she is the nurse; but as for the girl who is with her there is none in our land resembleth her in favour or approacheth her in fairness save the Princess Hayat al-Nufus, who is secluded and never goeth out. Would I knew how she came into the streets and would Heaven I wot whether or no 'twas by leave of the King!" Then he rose to learn somewhat concerning her and well nigh thirty castratos followed him; which when the old woman saw, her reason fled for fear and she said, "Verily, we are Allah's and to Him we shall return! Without recourse we are dead folk this time."--And Shahrazad perceived the dawn of day and ceased saying her permitted say.
 When it was the Seven Hundred and Thirty-third Night