,
She pursued, It hath reached me, O auspicious King, that when her lover visited Hayat al-Nufus in her palace, the twain embraced and she improvised some happy couplets beseeming the occasion. And when she had ended her extempore lines she said, "Is it indeed true that I see thee in my abode and that thou art my cup-mate and my familiar?" Then passion grew on her and love was grievous to her, so that her reason well-nigh fled for joy and she improvised these couplets,
"With all my soul I'll ransom him who came to me in gloom * Of night, whilst I had waited long to see his figure loom;  
 And naught aroused me save his weeping voice of tender tone * And whispered I, 'Fair fall thy foot and welcome and well come!'  
 His cheek I kissed a thousand times, and yet a thousand more; * Then clipt and clung about his breast enveiled in darkling room.  
 And cried, 'Now verily I've won the aim of every wish * So praise and prayers to Allah for this grace now best become.'  
 Then slept we even as we would the goodliest of nights * Till morning came to end our night and light up earth with bloom."
As soon as it was day, she made him enter a place in her apartment unknown to any and he abode there till nightfall, when she brought him out and they sat in converse and carouse. Presently he said to her, "I wish to return to my own country and tell my father what hath passed between us, that he may equip his Wazir to demand thee in marriage of thy sire." She replied, "O my love, I fear, an thou return to thy country and kingdom, thou wilt be distracted from me and forget the love of me; or that thy father will not further thy wishes in this matter and I shall die. Meseems the better rede were that thou abide with me and in my hand-grasp, I looking on thy face, and thou on mine, till I devise some plan, whereby we may escape together some night and flee to thy country; for I have cut off my hopes from my own people and I despair of them." He rejoined, "I hear and obey;" and they fell again to their carousal and conversing. He tarried with her thus for some time till, one night, the wine was pleasant to them and they lay not down nor did they sleep till break of day. Now it chanced that one of the Kings sent her father a present, and amongst other things, a necklace of union jewels, nine-and-twenty grains, to whose price a King's treasures might not suffice. Quoth Abd al-Kadir, "This riviere beseemeth none but my daughter Hayat al-Nufus;" and, turning to an eunuch, whose jaw-teeth the Princess had knocked out for reasons best known to herself, he called to him and said, "Carry the necklace to thy lady and say to her, 'One of the Kings hath sent thy father this, as a present, and its price may not be paid with money; put it on thy neck.'" The slave took the necklace, saying in himself, "Allah Almighty make it the last thing she shall put on in this world, for that she deprived me of the benefit of my grinder-teeth!"; and repairing to the Princess's apartment, found the door locked and the old woman asleep before the threshold. He shook her, and she awoke in affright and asked, "What dost thou want?"; to which he answered, "The King hath sent me on an errand to his daughter." Quoth the nurse, "The key is not here, go away, whilst I fetch it;" but quoth he, "I cannot go back to the King without having done his commandment." So she went away, as if to fetch the key; but fear overtook her and she sought safety in flight. Then the eunuch awaited her awhile; then, finding she did not return, he feared that the King would be angry at his delay; so he rattled at the door and shook it, whereupon the bolt gave way and the leaf opened. He entered and passed on, till he came to the seventh door and walking in to the Princess's chamber found the place splendidly furnished and saw candles and flagons there. At this spectacle he marvelled and going close up to the bed, which was curtained by a hanging of silk, embroidered with a net-work of jewels, drew back the curtain from before the Princess and saw her sleeping with her arms about the neck of a young man handsomer than herself; whereat he magnified Allah Almighty, who had created such a youth of vile water, and said, "How goodly be this fashion for one who hateth men! How came she by this fellow? Methinks 'twas on his account that she knocked out my back teeth!" Then he drew the curtain and made for the door; but the King's daughter awoke in affright and seeing the eunuch, whose name was Kafur, called to him. He made her no answer: so she came down from the bed on the estrade; and catching hold of his skirt laid it on her head and kissed his feet, saying, "Veil what Allah veileth!" Quoth he, "May Allah not veil thee nor him who would veil thee! Thou didst knock out my grinders and saidst to me, 'Let none make mention to me aught of men and their ways!'" So saying, he disengaged himself from her grasp and running out, locked the door on them and set another eunuch to guard it. Then he went in to the King who said to him "Hast thou given the necklace to Hayat al-Nufus?" The eunuch replied, "By Allah, thou deservest altogether a better fate;" and the King asked, "What hath happened? Tell me quickly;" whereto he answered, "I will not tell thee, save in private and between our eyes," but the King retorted, saying, "Tell me at once and in public." Cried the eunuch, "Then grant me immunity." So the King threw him the kerchief of immunity and he said, "O King, I went into the Princess Hayat al-Nufus and found her asleep in a carpeted chamber and on her bosom was a young man. So I locked the door upon the two and came back to thee." When the King heard these words he started up and taking a sword in his hand, cried out to the Rais of the eunuchs, saying, "Take thy lads and go to the Princess's chamber and bring me her and him who is with her as they twain lie on the bed; but cover them both up."--And Shahrazad perceived the dawn of day and ceased saying her permitted say.
 When it was the Seven Hundred and Thirty-fifth Night