,
She said, It hath reached me, O auspicious King, that Daulat Khatun related to Badi'a al-Jamal the first part of Sayf al-Muluk's history; how his love for her was caused by the tunic whereon her presentment was wrought; how he went forth, passion-distraught, in quest of her; how he forsook his people and his kingdom for her sake and how he had suffered all these terrors and hardships on her account. When Badi'a al-Jamal hear this, she blushed rosy red and was confounded at Daulat Khatun and said, "Verily this may never, never be; for man accordeth not with the Jann." Then Daulat Khatun went on to praise Sayf al-Muluk and extol his comeliness and courage and cavalarice, and ceased not repeating her memories of his prowess and his excellent qualities till she ended with saying, "For the sake of Almighty Allah and of me, O sister mine, come and speak with him, though but one word!" But Badi'a al-Jamal cried, "By Allah, O sister mine, this that thou sayest I will not hear, neither will I assent to thee therein;" and it was as if she heard naught of what the other said and as if no love of Sayf al-Muluk and his beauty and bearing and bravery had gotten hold upon her heart. Then Daulat Khatun humbled herself and said, "O Badi'a al-Jamal, by the milk we have sucked, I and thou, and by that which is graven on the seal-ring of Solomon (on whom be peace!) hearken to these my words for I pledged myself in the High-builded Castle of Japhet, to show him thy face. So Allah upon thee, show it to him once, for the love of me, and look thyself on him!" And she ceased not to weep and implore her and kiss her hands and feet, till she consented and said, "For thy sake I will show him my face once and he shall have a single glance." With that Daulat Khatun's heart was gladdened and she kissed her hands and feet. Then she went forth and fared to the great pavilion in the garden and bade her slave-women spread it with carpets and set up a couch of gold and place the wine-vessels in order; after which she went into Sayf al-Muluk and to his Wazir Sa'id, whom she found seated in their lodging, and gave the Prince the glad tidings of the winning of his wish, saying, "Go to the pavilion in the garden, thou and thy brother, and hide yourselves there from the eyes of men so none in the palace may espy you, till I come to you with Badi'a al-Jamal." So they rose and repaired to the appointed pavilion, where they found the couch of gold set and furnished with cushions, and meat and wine ready served. So they sat awhile, whilst Sayf al-Muluk bethought him of his beloved and his breast was straitened and love and longing assailed him: wherefore he rose and walked forth from the vestibule of the pavilion. Sa'id would have followed him, but he said to him, "O my brother, follow me not, but sit in thy stead till I return to thee." So Sa'id abode seated, whilst Sayf al-Muluk went down into the garden, drunken with the wine of desire and distracted for excess of love-longing and passion-fire: yearning agitated him and transport overcame him and he recited these couplets,
"O passing Fair I have none else but thee; * Pity this slave in thy love's slavery!  
 Thou art my search, my joy and my desire! * None save thyself shall love this heart of me:  
 Would Heaven I knew thou knewest of my wails * Night-long and eyelids oped by memory.  
 Bid sleep to soourn on these eyen-lids * Haply in vision I thy sight shall see.  
 Show favour then to one thus love-distraught: * Save him from ruin by thy cruelty!  
 Allah increase thy beauty and thy weal; * And be thy ransom every enemy!  
 So shall on Doomsday lovers range beneath * Thy flag, and beauties 'neath thy banner be."
Then he wept and recited these also,
"That rarest beauty ever bides my foe * Who holds my heart and lurks in secresy:  
 Speaking, I speak of nothing save her charms * And when I'm dumb in heart-core woneth she."
Then he wept sore and recited the following,
"And in my liver higher flames the fire; * You are my wish and longsome still I yearn:  
 To you (none other!) bend I and I hope * (Lovers long- suffering are!) your grace to earn;  
 And that you pity me whose frame by Love * Is waste and weak his heart with sore concern:  
 Relent, be gen'rous, tender-hearted, kind: * From you I'll ne'er remove, from you ne'er turn!"
Then he wept and recited these also,
"Came to me care when came the love of thee, * Cruel sleep fled me like thy cruelty:  
 Tells me the messenger that thou are wroth: * Allah forfend what evils told me he!"
Presently Sa'id waxed weary of awaiting him and going forth in quest of him, found him walking in the garden, distraught and reciting these two couplets,
"By Allah, by th' Almighty, by his right * Who read the Koran-Chapter 'Fatir hight;  
 Ne'er roam my glances o'er the charms I see; * Thy grace, rare beauty, is my talk by night."
So he joined him and the twain walked about the garden together solacing themselves and ate of its fruits. Such was their case; but as regards the two Princesses, they came to the pavilion and entering therein after the eunuchs had richly furnished it, according to command, sat down on the couch of gold, beside which was a window that gave upon the garden. The castratos then set before them all manner rich meats and they ate, Daulat Khatun feeding her foster-sister by mouthfuls, till she was satisfied; when she called for divers kinds of sweetmeats, and when the neutrals brought them, they ate what they would of them and washed their hands. After this Daulat Khatun made ready wine and its service, setting on the ewers and bowls and she proceeded to crown the cups and give Badi'a al-amal to drink, filling for herself after and drinking in turn. The Badi'a al-Jamal looked from the window into the garden and gazed upon the fruits and branches that were therein, till her glance fell on Sayf al-Muluk, and she saw him wandering about the parterres, followed by Sa'id, and she heard him recite verses, raining the while railing tears. And that glance of eyes cost her a thousand signs,--And Shahrazad perceived the dawn of day and ceased saying her permitted say.
 When it was the Seven Hundred and Seventy-fifth Night