,
She continued, It hath reached me, O auspicious King, that when Badi'a al-Jamal caught sight of Sayf al-Muluk as he wandered about the garden, that glance of eyes cost her a thousand sighs, and she turned to Daulat Khatun and said to her (and indeed the wine sported with her senses), "O my sister, who is that young man I see in the garden, distraught, love-abying, disappointed, sighing?" Quoth the other, "Dost thou give me leave to bring him hither, that we may look on him?"; and quoth the other, "An thou can avail to bring him, bring him." So Daulat Khatun called to him, saying "O King's son, come up to us and bring us thy beauty and thy loveliness!" Sayf al-Muluk recognised her voice and came up to into the pavilion; but no sooner had he set eyes on Badi'a al-Jamal, than he fell down in a swoon; whereupon Daulat Khatun sprinkled on him a little rose-water and he revived. Then he rose and kissed ground before Badi'a al-Jamal who was amazed at his beauty and loveliness; and Daulat Khatun said to her, "Know, O Princess, that this is Sayf al-Muluk, whose hand saved me by the ordinance of Allah Almighty and he it is who hath borne all manner burthens on thine account: wherefore I would have thee look upon him with favour." Hearing this Badi'a al-Jamal laughed and said, "And who keepeth faith, that this youth should do so? For there is no true love in men." Cried Sayf al-Muluk, "O Princess, never shall lack of faith be in me, and all men are not created alike." And he wept before her and recited these verses,
"O thou, Badi'a 'l-Jamal, show thou some clemency * To one those lovely eyes opprest with witchery!  
 By rights of beauteous hues and tints thy cheeks combine * Of snowy white and glowing red anemone,  
 Punish not with disdain one who is sorely sick * By long, long parting waste hath waxed this frame of me:  
 This is my wish, my will, the end of my desire, * And Union is my hope an haply this may be!"
Then he wept with violent weeping; and love and longing got the mastery over him and he greeted her with these couplets,
"Peace be to you from lover's wasted love, * All noble hearts to noble favour show:  
   Peace be to you! 
 Ne'er fail your form my dreams; * Nor hall nor chamber the fair sight forego!  
 Of you I'm jealous: none may name your name: * Lovers to lovers aye should bend thee low:  
 So cut not off your grace from him who loves * While sickness wastes and sorrows overthrow.  
 I watch the flowery stars which frighten me; * While cark and care mine every night foreslow.  
 Nor Patience bides with me nor plan appears: * What shall I say when questioned of my foe?  
 God's peace be with you in the hour of need, * Peace sent by lover patient bearing woe!"
Then for the excess of his desire and ecstasy he repeated these coupletes also,
"If I to aught save you, O lords of me, incline; * Ne'er may I win of you my wish, my sole design!  
 Who doth comprise all loveliness save only you? * Who makes the Doomsday dawn e'en now before these eyne?  
 Far be it Love find any rest, for I am one * Who lost for love of you this heart, these vitals mine."
When he had made an end of his verses, he wept with sore weeping and she said to him, "O Prince, I fear to grant myself wholly to thee lest I find in thee nor fondness nor affection; for oftentimes man's fidelity is small and his perfidy is great and thou knowest how the lord Solomon, son of David (on whom be the Peace!), took Bilkis to his love but, whenas he saw another fairer than she, turned from her thereto." Sayf al-Muluk replied, "O my eye and O my soul, Allah hath not made all men alike, and I, Inshallah, will keep my troth and die beneath thy feet. Soon shalt thou see what I will do in accordance with my words, and for whatso I say Allah is my warrant." Quoth Badi'a al-Jamal, "Sit and be of good heart and swear to me by the right of thy Faith and let us covenant together that each will not be false to other; and whichever of us breaketh faith may Almighty Allah punish!" At these words he sat down and set his hand in her hand and they sware each to other that neither of them would ever prefer to the other any one, either of man or of the Jann. Then they embraced for a whole hour and wept for excess of their joy, whilst passion overcame Sayf al-Muluk and he recited these couplets,
"I weep for longing love's own ardency * To her who claims the heart and soul of me.  
 And sore's my sorrow parted long from you, * And short's my arm to reach the prize I see;  
 And mourning grief for what my patience marred * To blamer's eye unveiled my secresy;  
 And waxed strait that whilome was so wide * Patience nor force remains nor power to dree.  
 Would Heaven I knew if God will ever deign to join * Our lives, and from our cark and care and grief set free!"
After this mutual troth-plighting, Sayf al-Muluk arose and walked in the garden and Badi'a al-Jamal arose also and went forth also afoot followed by a slave-girl bearing somewhat of food and a flask of wine. The Princess sat down and the damsel set the meat and wine before her: nor remained they long ere they were joined by Sayf al-Muluk, who was received with greeting and the two embraced and sat them down.--And Shahrazad perceived the dawn of day and ceased to say her permitted say.
 When it was the Seven Hundred and Seventy-sixth Night