,
She continued, It hath reached me, O auspicious King, that when Hasan saw the damsels issue forth the basin, the chief maiden robbed his reason with her beauty and loveliness compelling him to recite the couplets forequoted. And after dressing they sat talking and laughing, whilst he stood gazing on them, drowned in the sea of his love, burning in the flames of passion and wandering in the Wady of his melancholy thought. And he said to himself, "By Allah, my sister forbade me not to open the door, but for cause of these maidens and for fear lest I should fall in love with one of them! How, O Hasan shalt thou woo and win them? How bring down a bird flying in the vasty firmament? By Allah thou hast cast thyself into a bottomless sea and snared thyself in a net whence there is no escape! I shall die desolate and none shall wot of my death." And he continued to gaze on the charms of the chief damsel, who was the loveliest creature Allah had made in her day, and indeed she outdid in beauty all human beings. She had a mouth magical as Solomon's seal and hair blacker than the night of estrangement to the love-despairing man; her brow was bright as the crescent moon of the Feast of Ramaz n and her eyes were like eyes wherewith gazelles scan; she had a polished nose straight as a cane and cheeks like blood-red anemones of Nu'uman, lips like coralline and teeth like strung pearls in carcanets of gold virgin to man, and a neck like an ingot of silver, above a shape like a wand of B n: her middle was full of folds, a dimpled plain such as enforceth the distracted lover to magnify Allah and extol His might and main, and her navel an ounce of musk, sweetest of savour could contain: she had thighs great and plump, like marble columns twain or bolsters stuffed with down from ostrich ta'en, and between them a somewhat, as it were a hummock great of span or a hare with ears back lain while terrace-roof and pilasters completed the plan; and indeed she surpassed the bough of the myrobalan with her beauty and symmetry, and the Indian rattan, for she was even as saith of them the poet whom love did unman,
"Her lip-dews rival honey-sweets, that sweet virginity; * Keener than Hindi scymitar the glance she casts at thee:  
 She shames the bending bough of B n with graceful movement slow * And as she smiles her teeth appear with leven's brilliancy:  
 When I compared with rose a-bloom the tintage of her cheeks, * She laughed in scorn and cried, 'Whoso compares with rosery  
 My hue and breasts, granados terms, is there no shame in him? * How should pomegranates bear on bough such fruit in form or blee?  
 Now by my beauty and mine eyes and heart and eke by Heaven * Of favours mine and by the Hell of my unclemency,  
 They say 'She is a garden-rose in very pride of bloom'; * And yet no rose can ape my cheek nor branch my symmetry!  
 If any garden own a thing which unto me is like, * What then is that he comes to crave of me and only me?"'
They ceased not to laugh and play, whilst Hasan stood still a-watching them, forgetting meat and drink, till near the hour of mid-afternoon prayer, when the beauty, the chief damsel, said to her mates, "O Kings' daughters, it waxeth late and our land is afar and we are weary of this stead. Come, therefore, let us depart to our own place." So they all arose and donned their feather vests, and becoming birds as they were before, flew away all together, with the chief lady in their midst. Then, Hasan, despairing of their return, would have arisen and gone down into the palace but could not move or even stand; wherefore the tears ran down his cheeks and passion was sore on him and he recited these couplets,
"May God deny me boon of troth if I * After your absence sweets of slumber know:  
 Yea; since that sev'rance never close mine eyes, * Nor rest repose me since departed you!  
 'Twould seem as though you saw me in your sleep; * Would Heaven the dreams of sleep were real-true!  
 Indeed I dote on sleep though needed not, * For sleep may bring me that dear form to view."
Then Hasan walked on, little by little, heeding not the way he went, till he reached the foot of the stairs, whence he dragged himself to his own chamber; then he entered and shutting the door, lay sick eating not nor drinking and drowned in the sea of his solitude. He spent the night thus, weeping and bemoaning himself, till the morning, and when it morrowed he repeated these couplets,
"The birds took flight at eve and winged their way; * And sinless he who died of Love's death-blow.  
 I'll keep my love-tale secret while I can * But, an desire prevail, its needs must show:  
 Night brought me nightly vision, bright as dawn; * While nights of my desire lack morning-glow.  
 I mourn for them while they heart-freest sleep * And winds of love on me their plaything blow:  
 Free I bestow my tears, my wealth, my heart * My wit, my sprite: most gain who most bestow!  
 The worst of woes and banes is enmity * Beautiful maidens deal us to our woe.  
 Favour they say's forbidden to the fair * And shedding lovers' blood their laws allow;  
 That naught can love-sicks do but lavish soul, * And stake in love-play life on single throw:  
 I cry in longing ardour for my love: * Lover can only weep and wail Love-lowe."
When the sun rose he opened the door, went forth of the chamber and mounted to the stead where he was before: then he sat down facing the pavilion and awaited the return of the birds till nightfall; but they returned not; wherefore he wept till he fell to the ground in a fainting-fit. When he came to after his swoon, he dragged himself down the stairs to his chamber; and indeed, the darkness was come and straitened upon him was the whole world and he ceased not to weep and wail himself through the livelong night, till the day broke and the sun rained over hill and dale its rays serene. He ate not nor drank nor slept, nor was there any rest for him; but by day he was distracted and by night distressed, with sleeplessness delirious and drunken with melancholy thought and excess of love-longing. And he repeated the verses of the love-distraught poet,
"O thou who shamest sun in morning sheen * The branch confounding, yet with nescience blest;  
 Would Heaven I wot an Time shall bring return * And quench the fires which flame unmanifest,--  
 Bring us together in a close embrace, * Thy cheek upon my cheek, thy breast abreast!  
 Who saith, In Love dwells sweetness? when in Love * Are bitterer days than Alo‰s bitterest."
--And Shahrazad perceived the dawn of day and ceased to say her permitted say.
When it was the Seven Hundred and Eighty-eighty Night