,
She said, It hath reached me, O auspicious King, that the Lady Zubaydah, having taken the key from Hasan's mother, handed it to Masrur, saying, "Take this key and open such a closet; then bring forth of it the chest; break it open; bring me the feather-dress which is therein and set it before me." "Hearkening and obedience," replied he and taking the key went forth, whereupon the old woman arose and followed him, weeping-eyed and repenting her of having given ear to the damsel and gone with her to the bath, for her desire to go thither was but a device. So she went with him to the house and opened the door of the closet, and he entered and brought out the chest. Then he took therefrom the feather,dress and wrapping it in a napkin, carried it to the Lady Zubaydah, who took it and turned it about, marvelling at the beauty of its make; after which she gave it to the damsel, saying, "Is this thy dress of feathers?" She replied, "Yes, O my lady," and at once putting forth her hand, took it joyfully. Then she examined it and rejoiced to find it whole as it was, not a feather gone. So she rose and came down from beside the Lady Zubaydah and taking her sons in her bosom, wrapped herself in the feather-dress and became a bird, by the ordinance of Allah (to whom belong Might and Majesty!), whereat Zubaydah marvelled as did all who were present. Then she walked with a swaying and graceful gait and danced and sported and flapped her wings, whilst all eyes were fixed on her and all marvelled at what she did. Then said she with fluent tongue, "Is this goodly, O my ladies?"; and they replied, "Yes, O Princess of the fair! All thou dost is goodly." Said she, "And this, O my mistresses, that I am about to do is better yet." Then she spread her wings and flying up with her children to the dome of the palace, perched on the saloon-roof whilst they all looked at her, wide-eyed and said, "By Allah, this is indeed a rare and peregrine fashion! Never saw we its like." Then, as she was about to take flight for her own land, she bethought her of Hasan and said, "Hark ye, my mistresses!" and she improvised these couplets,
"O who bast quitted these abodes and faredst lief and light * To other objects of thy love with fain and fastest flight!  
 Deem'st thou that 'bided I with you in solace and in joy * Or that my days amid you all were clear of bane and blight?  
 When I was captive ta'en of Love and snarŠd in his snare, * He made of Love my prison and he fared fro' me forthright:  
 So when my fear was hidden, he made sure that ne'er should I * Pray to the One, th' Omnipotent to render me my right:  
 He charged his mother keep the secret with all the care she could, * In closet shut and treated me with enemy's despight:  
 But I o'erheard their words and held them fast in memory * And hoped for fortune fair and weal and blessings infinite:  
 My faring to the Hammam-bath then proved to me the means * Of making minds of folk to be confounded at my sight:  
 Wondered the Bride of Al-Rashid to see my brilliancy * When she beheld me right and left with all of beauty dight:  
 Then quoth I, 'O our Caliph's wife, I once was wont to own * A dress of feathers rich and rare that did the eyes delight:  
 An it were now on me thou shouldst indeed see wondrous things * That would efface all sorrows and disperse all sores of sprite:'  
 Then deigned our Caliph's Bride to cry, 'Where is that dress of thine?' * And I replied, 'In house of him kept darkling as the night.'  
 So down upon it pounced Masr£r and brought it unto her, * And when 'twas there each feather cast a ray of beaming light:  
 Therewith I took it from his hand and opened it straightway * And saw its plumŠd bosom and its buttons pleased my sight:  
 And so I clad myself therein and took with me my babes; * And spread my wings and flew away with all my main and might;  
 Saying, 'O husband's mother mine tell him when cometh he * An ever wouldest meet her thou from house and home must flee."'
When she had made an end of her verses, the Lady Zubaydah said to her, "Wilt thou not come down to us, that we may take our fill of thy beauty, O fairest of the fair? Glory be to Him who hath given thee eloquence and brilliance!" But she said, "Far be from me that the Past return should see!" Then said she to the mother of the hapless, wretched Hasan, "By Allah, O my lady, O mother of my husband, it irketh me to part from thee; but, whenas thy son cometh to thee and upon him the nights of severance longsome shall be and he craveth reunion and meeting to see and whenas breezes of love and longing shake him dolefully, let him come in the islands of W k to me." Then she took flight with her children and sought her own country, whilst the old woman wept and beat her face and moaned and groaned till she swooned away. When she came to herself, she said to the Lady Zubaydah, "O my lady, what is this thou hast done?" And Zubaydah said to her, "O my lady the pilgrimess, I knew not that this would happen and hadst thou told me of the case and acquainted me with her condition, I had not gainsaid thee. Nor did I know until now that she was of the Flying Jinn; else had I not suffered her to don the dress nor permitted her to take her children: but now, O my lady, words profit nothing; so do thou acquit me of offence against thee." And the old woman could do no otherwise than shortly answer, "Thou art acquitted.!" Then she went forth the palace of the Caliphate and returned to her own house, where she buffeted her face till she swooned away, When she came to herself, she pined for her daughter-in-law and her grandchildren and for the sight of her son and versified with these couplets,
"Your faring on the parting-day drew many a tear fro' me, * Who must your flying from the home long mourn in misery:  
 And cried I for the parting pang in anguish likest fire * And tear-floods chafed mine eyelids sore that ne'er of tears were free;  
 'Yes, this is Severance, Ah, shall we e'er oy return of you? * For your departure hath deprived my power of privacy!'  
 Ah, would they had returned to me in covenant of faith * An they return perhaps restore of past these eyne may see."
Then arising she dug in the house three graves and betook herself to them with weeping all whiles of the day and watches of the night; and when her son's absence was longsome upon her and grief and yearning and unquiet waxed upon her, she recited these couplets,
"Deep in mine eye-balls ever dwells the phantom-form of thee * My heart when throbbing or at rest holds fast thy memory:  
 And love of thee doth never cease to course within my breast, * As course the juices in the fruits which deck the branchy tree:  
 And every day I see thee not my bosom straightened is * And even censurers excuse the woes in me they see:  
 O thou whose love hath gotten hold the foremost in the heart * Of me whose fondness is excelled by mine insanity:  
 Fear the Compassionate in my case and some compassion show! * Love of thee makes me taste of death in bitterest pungency."
--And Shahrazad perceived the dawn of day and ceased saying her permitted say.
 When it was the Seven Hundred and Ninety-seventh Night