,
She continued, It hath reached me, O auspicious King, that Hasan's mother bewept through the watches of the night and the whiles of the day her separation from her son and his wife and children. On this wise it fared with her; but as regards Hasan, when he came to the Princesses, they conjured him to tarry with them three months, after which long sojourn they gave him five loads of gold and the like of silver and one load of victual and accompanied him on his homeward way till he conjured them to return, whereupon they farewelled him with an embrace; but the youngest came up to him, to bid him adieu and clasping his neck wept till she fainted. Then she recited these two couplets,
"When shall the severance-fire be quenched by union, love, with you? * When shall I win my wish of you and days that were renew?  
 The parting-day affrighted me and wrought me dire dismay * And doubleth woe, O master mine, by the sad word 'Adieu.'"
Anon came forward the second Princess and embraced him and recited these two couplets,
"Farewelling thee indeed is like to bidding life farewell * And like the loss of Zephyr 'tis to lose thee far our sight:  
 Thine absence is a flaming fire which burneth up my heart * And in thy presence I enjoy the Gardens of Delight."
Presently came forward the third and embraced him and recited these two couplets,
"We left not taking leave of thee (when bound to other goal) * From aught of ill intention or from weariness and dole:  
 Thou art my soul, my very soul, the only soul of me: * And how shall I farewell myself and say, 'Adieu my Soul?'"
After her came forward the fourth and embraced him and recited these two couplets,
"Nought garred me weep save where and when of severance spake he, * Persisting in his cruel will with sore persistency:  
 Look at this pearl-like ornament I've hung upon mine ear: * 'Tis of the tears of me compact, this choicest jewelry!"
In her turn came forward the fifth and embraced him and recited these two couplets,
"Ah, fare thee not; for I've no force thy faring to endure, * Nor e'en to say the word farewell before my friend is sped:  
 Nor any patience to support the days of severance, * Nor any tears on ruined house and wasted home to shed."
Next came the sixth and embraced him and recited these two couplets,
"I cried, as the camels went off with them, * And Love pained my vitals with sorest pain:  
 Had I a King who would lend me rule * I'd seize every ship that dares sail the Main."
Lastly came forward the seventh and embraced him and recited these couplets,
"When thou seest parting, be patient still, * Nor let foreign parts deal thy soul affright:  
 But abide, expecting a swift return, * For all hearts hold parting in sore despight."
And eke these two couplets,
"Indeed I'm heartbroken to see thee start, * Nor can I farewell thee ere thou depart;  
 Allah wotteth I left not to say adieu * Save for fear that saying would melt your heart."
Hasan also wept for parting from them, till he swooned, and repeated these couplets,
"Indeed, ran my tears on the severance-day * Like pearls I threaded in necklace-way  
 The cameleer drove his camels with song * But I lost heart, patience and strength and stay:  
 I bade them farewell and retired in grief * From tryst-place and camp where my dearlings lay:  
 I turned me unknowing the way nor joyed * My soul, but in hopes to return some day.  
 Oh listen, my friend, to the words of love * God forbid thy heart forget all I say!  
 O my soul when thou partest wi' them, part too * With all joys of life nor for living pray!"
Then he farewelled them and fared on diligently night and day, till he came to Baghdad, the House of Peace and Sanctuary of the Abbaside Caliphs, unknowing what had passed during his wayfare. At once entering his house he went in to his mother to salute her, but found her worn of body and wasted of bones, for excess of mourning and watching, weeping and wailing, till she was grown thin as a toothpick and could not answer him a word. So he dismissed the dromedaries then asked her of his wife and children and she wept till she fainted, and he seeing her in this state searched the house for them, but found no trace of them. Then he went to the store-closet and finding it open and the chest broken and the feather-dress missing, knew forthright that his wife had possessed herself thereof and flown away with her children. Then he returned to his mother and, finding her recovered from her fit, questioned her of his spouse and babes, whereupon she wept and said, "O my son, may Allah amply requite thee their loss! These are their three tombs." When Hasan heard these words of his mother, he shrieked a loud shriek and fell down in a fainting-fit in which he lay from the first of the day till noon-tide; whereupon anguish was added to his mother's anguish and she despaired of his life. However, after a-while, he came to himself and wept and buffeted his face and rent his raiment and went about the house clean distraught, reciting these two couplets,
"Folk have made moan of passion before me, of past years, * And live and dead for absence have suffered pains and fears;  
 But that within my bosom I harbour, with mine eyes * I've never seen the like of nor heard with mine ears."
Then finishing his verses he bared his brand and coming up to his mother, said to her, "Except thou tell me the truth of the case, I will strike off thy head and kill myself." She replied, "O my son, do not such deed: put up thy sword and sit down, till I tell thee what hath passed." So he sheathed his scymitar and sat by her side, whilst she recounted to him all that had happened in his absence from first to last, adding, "O my son, but that I saw her weep in her longing for the bath and feared that she would go and complain to thee on thy return, and thou wouldst be wroth with me. I had never carried her thither; and were it not that the Lady Zubaydah was wroth with me and took the key from me by force, I had never brought out the feather-dress, though I died for it. But thou knowest, O my son, that no hand may measure length with that of the Caliphate. When they brought her the dress, she took it and turned it over, fancying that somewhat might be lost thereof, but she found it uninjured; wherefore she rejoiced and making her children fast to her waist, donned the feather-vest, after the Lady Zubaydah had pulled off to her all that was upon herself and clad her therein, in honour of her and because of her beauty. No sooner had she donned the dress than she shook and becoming a bird, promenaded about the palace, whilst all who were present gazed at her and marvelled at her beauty and loveliness. Then she flew up to the palace roof and perching thereon, looked at me and said: 'Whenas thy son cometh to thee and the nights of separation upon him longsome shall be and he craveth reunion and meeting to see and whenas the breezes of love and longing shake him dolefully let him leave his native land and journey to the Islands of Wak and seek me.' This, then, is her story and what befel in thine absence."--And Shahrazad perceived the dawn of day and ceased to say her permitted say.
 When it was the Seven Hundred and Ninety-eighth Night