,
She pursued, It hath reached me, O auspicious King, that as soon as Hasan's mother had made an end of her story, he gave a great cry and fell down in a fainting fit which continued till the end of day, when he revived and fell to buffeting his face and writhing on the floor like a scotched snake. His mother sat weeping by his head until midnight, when he came to himself and wept sore and recited these couplets',
"Pause ye and see his sorry state since when ye fain withdrew; * Haply, when wrought your cruelty, you'll have the grace to rue:  
 For an ye look on him, you'll doubt of him by sickness-stress * As though, by Allah, he were one before ye never knew.  
 He dies for nothing save for love of you, and he would be * Numbered amid the dead did not he moan and groan for you.  
 And deem not pangs of severance sit all lightly on his soul; * 'Tis heavy load on lover-wight; 'twere lighter an ye slew."
Then having ended his verse he rose and went round about the house, weeping and wailing, groaning and bemoaning himself, five days, during which he tasted nor meat nor drink. His mother came to him and conjured him, till he broke his fast, and besought him to leave weeping; but he hearkened not to her and continued to shed tears and lament, whilst she strove to comfort him and he heeded her not. Then he recited these couplets,
"Beareth for love a burden sore this soul of me, * Could break a mortal's back however strong that be;  
 I am distraught to see my case and languor grows * Making my day and night indifferent in degree:  
 I own to having dreaded Death before this day: * This day I hold my death mine only remedy."
And Hasan ceased not to do thus till daybreak, when his eyes closed and he saw in a dream his wife grief-full and repentant for that which she had done. So he started up from sleep crying out and reciting these two couplets,
"Their image bides with me, ne'er quits me, ne'er shall fly; * But holds within my heart most honourable stead;  
 But for reunion-hope, I'd see me die forthright, * And but for phantom-form of thee my sleep had fled."
And as morning morrowed he redoubled his lamentations. He abode weeping-eyed and heavy-hearted, wakeful by night and eating little, for a whole month, at the end of which he bethought him to repair to his sisters and take counsel with them in the matter of his wife, so haply they might help him to regain her. Accordingly he summoned the dromedaries and loading fifty of them with rarities of Al-Irak, committed the house to his mother's care and deposited all his goods in safe keeping, except some few he left at home. Then he mounted one of the beasts and set out on his journey single handed, intent upon obtaining aidance from the Princesses, and he stayed not till he reached the Palace of the Mountain of Clouds, when he went in to the damsels and gave them the presents in which they rejoiced. Then they wished him joy of his safety and said to him, "O our brother, what can ail thee to come again so soon, seeing thou wast with us but two months since?" Whereupon he wept and improvised these couplets,
"My soul for loss of lover sped I sight; * Nor life enjoying neither life's delight:  
 My case is one whose cure is all unknown; * Can any cure the sick but doctor wight?  
 O who hast reft my sleep-joys, leaving me * To ask the breeze that blew from that fair site,--  
 Blew from my lover's land (the land that owns * Those charms so sore a grief in soul excite),  
 'O breeze, that visitest her land, perhaps * Breathing her scent, thou mayst revive my sprite!'"
And when he ended his verse he gave a great cry and fell down in a fainting-fit. The Princesses sat round him, weeping over him, till he recovered and repeated these two couplets,
"Haply and happily may Fortune bend her rein * Bringing my love, for Time's a freke of jealous strain;  
 Fortune may prosper me, supply mine every want, * And bring a blessing where before were ban and bane."
Then he wept till he fainted again, and presently coming to himself recited the two following couplets,
"My wish, mine illness, mine unease! by Allah, own * Art thou content? then I in love contented wone!  
 Dost thou forsake me thus sans crime or sin * Meet me in ruth, I pray, and be our parting gone."
Then he wept till he swooned away once more and when he revived he repeated these couplets,
"Sleep fled me, by my side wake ever shows * And hoard of tear-drops from these eyne aye flows;  
 For love they weep with beads cornelian-like * And growth of distance greater dolence grows:  
 Lit up my longing, O my love, in me * Flames burning 'neath my ribs with fiery throes!  
 Remembering thee a tear I never shed * But in it thunder roars and leven glows."
Then he wept till he fainted away a fourth time, and presently recovering, recited these couplets,
"Ah! for lowe of love and longing suffer ye as suffer we? * Say, as pine we and as yearn we for you are pining ye?  
 Allah do the death of Love, what a bitter draught is his! * Would I wot of Love what plans and what projects nurseth he!  
 Your faces radiant-fair though afar from me they shine, * Are mirrored in our eyes whatsoever the distance be;  
 My heart must ever dwell on the memories of your tribe; * And the turtle-dove reneweth all as oft as moaneth she:  
 Ho thou dove, who passest night-tide in calling on thy fere, * Thou doublest my repine, bringing grief for company;  
 And leavest thou mine eyelids with weeping unfulfilled * For the dearlings who departed, whom we never more may see:  
 I melt for the thought of you at every time and hour, * And I long for you when Night showeth cheek of blackest blee."
Now when his sister heard these words and saw his condition and how he lay fainting on the floor, she screamed and beat her face and the other Princesses hearing her scream came out and learning his misfortune and the transport of love and longing and the passion and distraction that possessed him they questioned him of his case. He wept and told them what had befallen in his absence and how his wife had taken flight with her children, wherefore they grieved for him and asked him what she said at leave-taking. Answered he, "O my sisters, she said to my mother, 'Tell thy son, whenas he cometh to thee and the nights of sever- ance upon him longsome shall be and he craveth reunion and meeting to see, and whenas the winds of love and longing shake him dolefully, let him fare in the Islands of Wak to me." When they heard his words they signed one to other with their eyes and shook their heads, and each looked at her sister, whilst Hasan looked at them all. Then they bowed their heads groundwards and bethought themselves awhile; after which they raised their heads and said, "There is no Majesty and there is no Might save in Allah, the Glorious, the Great!"; presently adding, "Put forth thy hand to heaven and when thou reach thither, then shalt thou win to thy wife.--And Shahrazad perceived the dawn of day and ceased saying her permitted say.
 When it was the Seven Hundred and Ninety-ninth Night