,
She pursued, It hath reached me, O auspicious King, that when Nur al-Huda was certified that the little ones were Hasan's children and that her sister Manar al-Sana was his wife of whom he had come in quest, she raged with exceeding rage, too great to be assuaged and screamed in Hasan's face and reviled him and kicked him in the breast, so that he fell on his back in a swoon. Then she cried out at him, saying, "Arise! fly for thy life. But that I swore that no evil should betide thee from me, should thy tale prove true, I would slay thee with mine own hand forthright!" And she cried out at the old woman, who fell on her face for fear, and said to her, "By Allah, but that I am loath to break the oath that I swore, I would put both thee and him to death after the foulest fashion!"; presently adding, "Arise, go out from before me in safety and return to thine own country, for I swear by my fortune, if ever mine eye espy thee or if any bring thee in to me after this, I will smite off thy head and that of whoso bringeth thee!" Then she cried out to her officers, saying, "Put him out from before me!" So they thrust him out, and when he came to himself, he recited these couplets,
"You're far, yet to my heart you're nearest near; * Absent yet present in my sprite you appear:  
 By Allah, ne'er to other I've inclined * But tyranny of Time in patience bear!  
 Nights pass while still I love you and they end, * And burns my breast with flames of fell Sa'ir;  
 I was a youth who parting for an hour * Bore not, then what of months that make a year?  
 Jealous am I of breeze-breath fanning thee; * Yea jealous-mad of fair soft-sided fere!"
Then he once more fell down in a swoon, and when he came to himself, he found himself without the palace whither they had dragged him on his face; so he rose, stumbling over his skirts and hardly crediting his escape from Nur al-Huda. Now this was grievous to Shawahi; but she dared not remonstrate with the Queen by reason of the violence of her wrath. And forthright Hasan went forth, distracted and knowing not whence to come or whither to go; the world, for all its wideness, was straitened upon him and he found none to speak a kind word with him and comfort him, nor any to whom he might resort for counsel or to apply for refuge; wherefore he made sure of death for that he could not journey to his own country and knew none to travel with him, neither wist he the way thither nor might he pass through the Wady of the Jann and the Land of Beasts and the Islands of Birds. So giving himself up for lost he bewept himself, till he fainted, and when he revived, he bethought him of his children and his wife and of that might befal her with her sister, repenting him of having come to those countries and of having hearkened to none, and recited these couplets,
"Suffer mine eye-babes weep lost of love and tears express: * Rare is my solace and increases my distress:  
 The cup of Severance-chances to the dregs I've drained; * Who is the man to bear love-loss with manliness?  
 Ye spread the Carpet of Disgrace betwixt us twain; * Ah, when shalt be uprolled, O Carpet of Disgrace?  
 I watched the while you slept; and if you deemed that I * Forgot your love I but forget forgetfulness:  
 Woe's me! indeed my heart is pining for the love * Of you, the only leaches who can cure my case:  
 See ye not what befel me from your fell disdain? * Debased am I before the low and high no less.  
 I hid my love of you but longing laid it bare, * And burns my heart wi' fire of passion's sorest stress:  
 Ah! deign have pity on my piteous case, for I * Have kept our troth in secresy and patent place!  
 Would Heaven I wot shall Time e'er deign us twain rejoin! * You are my heart's desire, my sprite's sole happiness:  
 My vitals bear the Severance-wound: would Heaven that you * With tidings from your camp would deign my soul to bless!"
Then he went on, till he came without the city, where he found the river, and walked along its bank, knowing not whither he went. Such was Hasan's case; but as regards his wife Manar al-Sana, as she was about to carry out her purpose and to set out, on the second day after the departure of the old woman with her children, behold, there came in to her one of the chamberlains of the King her sire, and kissed ground between his hands,--And Shahrazad perceived the dawn of day and ceased saying her permitted say.
 When it was the Eight Hundred and Seventeenth Night