,
She continued, It hath reached me, O auspicious King, that when the merchant awoke, he strave with his yearnings till morning when he said to himself, "There is no help but that I go this day to some one who will expound to me this vision." So he went forth and walked right and left, till he was far from his dwelling-place, but found none to interpret the dream to him. Then he would have returned, but on his way behold, the fancy took him to turn aside to the house of a certain trader, a man of the wealthiest, and when he drew near to it, suddenly he heard from within a plaintive voice from a sorrowful heart reciting these couplets,
"The breeze o' Morn blows uswards from her trace * Fragrant, and heals the love-sick lover's case.  
 I stand like captive on the mounds and ask * While tears make answer for the ruined place:  
 Quoth I, 'By Allah, Breeze o' Morning, say * Shall Time and Fortune aye this stead regrace?  
 Shall I enjoy a fawn whose form bewitched * And langourous eyelids wasted frame and face?'"
When Masrur heard this, he looked in through the doorway and saw a garden of the goodliest of gardens, and at its farther end a curtain of red brocade, purfled with pearls and gems, behind which sat four damsels, and amongst them a young lady over four feet and under five in height, as she were the rondure of the lune and the full moon shining boon: she had eyes Kohl'd with nature's dye and joined eyebrows, a mouth as it were Solomon's seal and lips and teeth bright with pearls and coral's light; and indeed she ravished all wits with her beauty and loveliness and symmetry and perfect grace. When Masrur espied her, he entered the porch and went on entering till he came to the curtain: whereupon she raised her head and glanced at him. So he saluted her and she returned his salam with sweetest speech; and, when he considered her more straitly, his reason was dazed and his heart amazed. Then he looked at the garden and saw that it was full of jessamine and gilly flowers and violets and roses and orange blossoms and all manner sweet-scented blooms and herbs. Every tree was girt about with fruits and there coursed down water from four daises, which faced one another and occupied the four corners of the garden. He looked at the first Liw n and found written around it with vermilion these two couplets,
"Ho thou the House! Grief never home in thee; * Nor Time work treason on thine owner's head:  
 All good betide the House which every guest * Harbours, when sore distrest for way and stead!"
Then he looked at the second dais and found written thereon in red gold these couplets,
"Robe thee, O House, in richest raiment Time, * Long as the birdies on the branchlets chime!  
 And sweetest perfumes breathe within thy walls * And lover meet beloved in bliss sublime.  
 And dwell thy dwellers all in joy and pride * Long as the wandering stars Heaven-hill shall climb."
Then he looked at the third, whereon he found written in ultramarine these two couplets,
"Ever thy pomp and pride, O House! display * While starkeneth Night and shineth sheeny Day!  
 Boon Fortune bless all entering thy walls, * And whomso dwell in thee, for ever and aye!"
Then he looked at the fourth and saw painted in yellow characters this couplet,
"This garden and this lake in truth * Are fair sitting-steads, by the Lord of Ruth!"
Moreover, in that garden were birds of all breeds, ring-dove and cushat and nightingale and culver, each singing his several song, and amongst them the lady, swaying gracefully to and fro in her beauty and grace and symmetry and loveliness and ravishing all who saw her. Presently quoth she to Masrur, "Hola man! what bringeth thee into a house other than thy house and wherefore comest thou in unto women other than thy women, without leave of their owner?" Quoth he, "O my lady, I saw this garden, and the goodliness of its greenery pleased me and the fragrance of its flowers and the carolling of its birds; so I entered, thinking to gaze on it awhile and wend my way." Said she, "With love and gladness!"; and Masrur was amazed at the sweetness of her speech and the coquetry of her glances and the straightness of her shape, and transported by her beauty and seemlihead and the pleasantness of the garden and the birds. So in the disorder of his spirits he recited these couplets,
"As a crescent-moon in the garth her form * 'Mid Basil and jasmine and Rose I scan;  
 And Violet faced by the Myrtle-spray * And Nu'um n's bloom and Myrobalan:  
 By her perfume the Zephyrs perfumŠd breathe * And with scented sighings the branches fan.  
 O Garden, thou perfect of beauty art * All charms comprising in perfect plan;  
 And melodious birdies sing madrigals * And the Full Moon shineth in branchshade wan;  
 Its ring-dove, its culver, its mocking-bird * And its Philomel sing my soul t' unman;  
 And the longing of love all my wits confuseth * For her charms, as the man whom his wine bemuseth."
Now when Zayn al-Maw sif heard his verse, she glanced at him with eyes which bequeathed a thousand sighs and utterly ravished his wisdom and wits and replied to him in these lines,
"Hope not of our favours to make thy prey * And of what thou wishest thy greed allay:  
 And cease thy longing; thou canst not win * The love of the Fair thou'rt fain t' essay,  
 My glances to lovers are baleful and naught * I reek of thy speech: I have said my say!"
"Ho, thou! Begone about thy business, for we are none of the woman-tribe who are neither thine nor another's." And he answered, "O my lady, I said nothing ill." Quoth she, "Thou soughtest to divert thyself and thou hast had thy diversion; so wend thy ways." Quoth he, "O my lady, belike thou wilt give me a draught of water, for I am athirst." Whereupon she cried, "How canst thou drink of a Jew's water, and thou a Nazarene?" But he replied, "O my lady, your water is not forbidden to us nor ours unlawful to you, for we are all as one creation." So she said to her slave-girl, "Give him to drink;" and she did as she was bidden. Then she called for the table of food, and there came four damsels, high-bosomed maids, bearing four trays of meats and four gilt flagons full of strong old-wine, as it were the tears of a slave of love for clearness, and a table around whose edge were graven these couplets,
"For eaters a table they brought and set * In the banquet-hall and 'twas dight with gold:  
 Like th' Eternal Garden that gathers all * Man wants of meat and wines manifold."
And when the high-breasted maids had set all this before him, quoth she, "Thou soughtest to drink of our drink; so up and at our meat and drink!" He could hardly credit what his ears had heard and sat down at the table forthright; whereupon she bade her nurse give him a cup, that he might drink. Now her slave-girls were called, one Hub£b, another Khut£b and the third Suk£b, and she who gave him the cup was Hubub. So he took the cup and looking at the outside there saw written these couplets,
"Drain not the howl but with lovely wight * Who loves thee and wine makes brighter bright.  
 And 'ware her Scorpions that o'er thee creep * And guard thy tongue lest thou vex her sprite."
Then the cup went round and when he emptied it he looked inside and saw written,
"And 'ware her Scorpions when pressing them, * And hide her secrets from foes' despight."
Whereupon Masrur laughed her-wards and she asked him, "What causeth thee to laugh?" "For the fulness of my joy," quoth he. Presently, the breeze blew on her and the scarf fell from her head and discovered a fillet of glittering gold, set with pearls and gems and jacinths; and on her breast was a necklace of all manner ring-jewels and precious stones, to the centre of which hung a sparrow of red gold, with feet of red coral and bill of white silver and body full of Nadd-powder and pure ambergris and odoriferous musk. And upon its back was engraved,
"The Nadd is my wine-scented powder, my bread; * And the bosom's my bed and the breasts my stead:  
 And my neck-nape complains of the weight of love, * Of my pain, of my pine, of my drearihead."
Then Masrur looked at the breast of her shift and behold, thereon lay wroughten in red gold this verse,
"The fragrance of musk from the breasts of the fair * Zephyr borrows, to sweeten the morning air."
Masrur marvelled at this with exceeding wonder and was dazed by her charms and amazement gat hold upon him. Then said Zayn al-Maw sif to him, "Begone from us and go about thy business, lest the neighbours hear of us and even us with the lewd." He replied, "By Allah, O my lady, suffer my sight to enjoy the view of thy beauty and loveliness." With this she was wroth with him and leaving him, walked in the garden, and he looked at her shift-sleeve and saw upon it embroidered these lines,
"The weaver-wight wrote with gold-ore bright * And her wrists on brocade rained a brighter light:  
 Her palms are adorned with a silvern sheen; * And favour her fingers the ivory's white:  
 For their tips are rounded like priceless pearl; * And her charms would enlighten the nightiest night."
And, as she paced the garth, Masrur gazed at her slippers and saw written upon them these pleasant lines,
"The slippers that carry these fair young feet * Cause her form to bend in its gracious bloom:  
 When she paces and waves in the breeze she owns, * She shines fullest moon in the murkiest gloom."
She was followed by her women leaving Hubub with Masrur by the curtain, upon whose edge were embroidered these couplets,
"Behind the veil a damsel sits with gracious beauty dight, * Praise to the Lord who decked her with these inner gifts of sprite!  
 Guards her the garden and the bird fain bears her company; * Gladden her wine-draughts and the bowl but makes her brighter-bright.  
 Apple and Cassia-blossom show their envy of her cheeks; * And borrows Pearl resplendency from her resplendent light;  
 As though the sperm that gendered her were drop of marguerite * Happy who kisses her and spends in her embrace the night."
So Masrur entered into a long discourse with Hubub and presently said to her, "O Hubub, hath thy mistress a husband or not?" She replied, "My lady hath a husband; but he is actually abroad on a journey with merchandise of his." Now whenas he heard that her husband was abroad on a journey, his heart lusted after her and he said, "O Hubub, glorified be He who created this damsel and fashioned her! How sweet is her beauty and her loveliness and her symmetry and perfect grace! Verily, into my heart is fallen sore travail for her. O Hubub, so do that I come to enjoy her, and thou shalt have of me what thou wilt of wealth and what not else." Replied Hubub, "O Nazarene, if she heard thee speak thus, she would slay thee, or else she would kill herself, for she is the daughter of a Zealot of the Jews nor is there her like amongst them: she hath no need of money and she keepeth herself ever cloistered, discovering not her case to any." Quoth Masrur, "O Hubub, an thou wilt but bring me to enjoy her, I will be to thee slave and foot page and will serve thee all my life and give thee whatsoever thou seekest of me." But quoth she, "O Masrur, in very sooth this woman hath no lust for money nor yet for men, because my lady Zayn al-Mawasif is of the cloistered, going not forth her house-door in fear lest folk see her; and but that she bore with thee by reason of thy strangerhood, she had not permitted thee to pass her threshold; no, not though thou wert her brother." He replied, "O Hubub, be thou our go-between and thou shalt have of me an hundred gold dinars and a dress worth as much more, for that the love of her hath gotten hold of my heart." Hearing this she said, "O man, let me go about with her in talk and I will return thee and answer and acquaint thee with what she saith. Indeed, she loveth those who berhyme her and she affecteth those who set forth her charms and beauty and loveliness in verse, and we may not prevail over her save by wiles and soft speech and beguilement." Thereupon Hubub rose and going up to her mistress, accosted her with privy talk of this and that and presently said to her, "O my lady, look at yonder young man, the Nazarene; how sweet is his speech and how shapely his shape!" When Zayn al-Mawasif heard this, she turned to her and said, "An thou like his comeliness love him thyself. Art thou not ashamed to address the like of me with these words? Go, bid him begone about his business; or I will make it the worse for him." So Hubub returned to Masrur, but acquainted him not with that which her mistress had said. Then the lady bade her hie to the door and look if she saw any of the folk, lest foul befal them. So she went and returning, said, "O my lady, without are folk in plenty and we cannot let him go forth this night." Quoth Zayn al-Mawasif, "I am in dole because of a dream I have seen and am fearful therefrom." And Masrur said, "What sawest thou? Allah never trouble thy heart!" She replied, "I was asleep in the middle of the night, when suddenly an eagle swooped down upon me from the highest of the clouds and would have carried me off from behind the curtain, wherefore I was affrighted at him. Then I awoke from sleep and bade my women bring me meat and drink, so haply, when I had drunken, the dolour of the dream would cease from me." Hearing this, Masrur smiled and told her his dream from first to last and how he had caught the dove, whereat she marvelled with exceeding marvel. Then he went on to talk with her at great length and said, "I am now certified of the truth of my dream, for thou art the dove and I the eagle, and there is no hope but that this must be, for, the moment I set eyes on thee, thou tookest possession of my vitals and settest my heart a-fire for love of thee!" Thereupon Zayn al-Mawasif became wroth with exceeding wrath and said to him, "I take refuge with Allah from this! Allah upon thee, begone about thy business ere the neighbours espy thee and there betide us sore reproach," adding, "Harkye, man! Let not thy soul covet that it shall not obtain. Thou weariest thyself in vain; for I am a merchant's wife and a merchant's daughter and thou art a druggist; and when sawest thou a druggist and a merchant's daughter conjoined by such sentiment?" He replied, "O my lady, never lacked love-liesse between folk; so cut thou not off from me hope of this and whatsoever thou seekest of me of money and raiment and ornaments and what not else, I will give thee." Then he abode with her in discourse and mutual blaming whilst she still redoubled in anger, till it was black night, when he said to her, "O my lady, take this gold piece and fetch me a little wine, for I am athirst and heavy hearted." So she said to the slave-girl Hubub, "Fetch him wine and take naught from him, for we have no need of his dinar." So she went whilst Masrur held his peace and bespake not the lady, who suddenly improvised these lines,
"Leave this thy design and depart, O man! * Nor tread paths where lewdness and crime trepan!  
 Love is a net shall enmesh thy sprite, * Make thee rise a-morning sad, weary and wan:  
 For our spy thou shalt eke be the cause of talk; * And for thee shall blame me my tribe and clan:  
 Yet scant I marvel thou lovest a Fair:-- * Gazelles hunting lions we aye shall scan!"
And he answered her with these,
"Joy of boughs, bright branch of Myrobalan! * Have ruth on the heart all thy charms unman:  
 Death-cup to the dregs thou garrest me drain * And don weed of Love with its bane and ban:  
 How can soothe I a heart which for stress of pine * Burns with living coals which my longings fan?"
Hearing these lines she exclaimed, "Away from me! Quoth the saw 'Whoso looseth his sight wearieth his sprite.' By Allah, I am tired of discourse with thee and chiding, and indeed thy soul coveteth that shall never become thine; nay, though thou gave me my weight in gold, thou shouldst not get thy wicked will of me; for, I know naught of the things of the world, save pleasant life, by the boon of Allah Almighty!" He answered, "O my lady Zayn al-Mawasif, ask of me what thou wilt of the goods of the world." Quoth she, "What shall I ask of thee? For sure thou wilt fare forth and prate of me in the highway and I shall become a laughing-stock among the folk and they will make a byword of me in verse, me who am the daughter of the chief of the merchants and whose father is known of the notables of the tribe. I have no need of money or raiment and such love will not be hidden from the people and I shall be brought to shame, I and my kith and kin." With this Masrur was confounded and could make her no answer; but presently she said, "Indeed, the master-thief, if he steal, stealeth not but what is worth his neck, and every woman who doth lewdness with other than her husband is styled a thief; so, if it must be thus and no help, thou shalt give me whatsoever my heart desireth of money and raiment and ornaments and what not." Quoth he, "An thou sought of me the world and all its regions contain from its East to its West, 'twere but a little thing, compared with thy favour;" and quoth she, "I will have of thee three suits, each worth a thousand Egyptian dinars, and adorned with gold and fairly purfled with pearls and jewels and jacinths, the best of their kind. Furthermore I require that thou swear to me thou wilt keep my secret nor discover it to any and that thou wilt company with none but me; and I in turn will swear to thee a true oath that I will never false thee in love." So he sware to her the oath she required and she sware to him, and they agreed upon this; after which she said to her nurse Hubub, "To-morrow go thou with Masrur to his lodging and seek somewhat of musk and ambergris and Nadd and rose-water and see what he hath. If he be a man of condition, we will take him into favour; but an he be otherwise we will leave him." Then said she to him, "O Masrur, I desire somewhat of musk and ambergris and aloes-wood and Nadd; so do thou send it me by Hubub;" and he answered, "With love and gladness; my shop is at thy disposal!" Then the wine went round between them and their s‚ance was sweet: but Masrur's heart was troubled for the passion and pining which possessed him; and when Zayn alMawasif saw him in this plight, she said to her slave-girl Sukub, "Arouse Masrur from his stupor; mayhap he will recover." Answered Sukub, "Hearkening and obedience," and sang these couplets,
"Bring gold and gear an a lover thou, * And hymn thy love so success shalt row;  
 Joy the smiling fawn with the black-edged eyne * And the bending lines of the Cassiabough:  
 On her look, and a marvel therein shalt sight, * And pour out thy life ere thy life-term show:  
 Love's affect be this, an thou weet the same; * But, an gold deceive thee, leave gold and go!"
Hereupon Masrur understood her and said, "I hear and apprehend. Never was grief but after came relief, and after affliction dealing He will order the healing." Then Zayn al-Mawasif recited these couplets,
"From Love-stupor awake, O Masrur, 'twere best; * For this day I dread my love rend thy breast;  
 And to-morrow I fear me folks' marvel-tale * Shall make us a byword from East to West:  
 Leave love of my like or thou'lt gain thee blame; * Why turn thee us-wards? Such love's unblest!  
 For one strange of lineage whose kin repel * Thou shalt wake ill-famed, of friends dispossest:  
 I'm a Zealot's child and affright the folk: * Would my life were ended and I at rest!"
Then Masrur answered her improvisation and began to say these lines,
"To grief leave a heart that to love ne'er ceased; * Nor blame, for your blame ever love increased:  
 You misrule my vitals in tyrant-guise; * Morn and Eve I wend not or West or East;  
 Love's law forbids me to do me die; * They say Love's victim is ne'er released:  
 Well-away! Could I find in Love's Court a judge * I'd 'plain and win to my rights at least."
They ceased not from mutual chiding till morning morrowed, when Zayn al-Mawasif said, "O Masrur 'tis time for thee to depart, lest one of the folk see thee and foul befal us twain." So he arose and accompanied by nurse Hubub fared on, till they came to his lodging, where he talked with her and said to her, "All thou seekest of me is ready for thee, so but thou wilt bring me to enjoy her." Hubub replied, "Hearten thy heart;" whereupon he rose and gave her an hundred dinars, saying "O Hubub, I have by me a dress worth an hundred gold pieces." Answered she, "O Masrur, make haste with the trinkets and other things promised her, ere she change her mind, for we may not take her, save with wile and guile, and she loveth the saying of verse." Quoth he, "Hearing and obeying," and bringing her the musk and ambergris and lign-aloes and rosewater, returned with her to Zayn al-Mawasif and saluted her. She returned his salam with the sweetest speech, and he was dazed by her beauty and improvised these lines,
"O thou sheeniest Sun who in night dost shine! * O who stole my soul with those large black eyne!  
 O slim-shaped fair with the graceful neck! * O who shamest Rose wi' those checks o' thine!  
 Blind not our sight wi' thy fell disdain, * Disdain, that shall load us with pain and pine;  
 Passion homes in our inmost, nor will be quenched * The fire of yearning in vitals li'en:  
 Your love has housŠd in heart of me * And of issue but you see I ne'er a sign:  
 Then haply you'll pity this hapless wight * Thy sad lover and then--O the Morn divine!"
When Zayn al-Mawasif heard his verses, she cast at him a glance of eyes, that bequeathed him a thousand regrets and sighs and his wits and soul were ravished in such wise, and answered him with these couplets,
"Think not from her, of whom thou art enamoured aye * To win delight; so put desire from thee away.  
 Leave that thou hop'st, for 'gainst her rigours whom thou lov'st * Among the fair, in vain is all thou canst essay.  
 My looks to lovers bring discomfiture and woe: Indeed, * I make no count of that which thou dost say."
When Masrur heard this, he hardened his heart and took patience, concealing his case and saying in himself, "There is nothing for it against calamity save longsuffering;" and after this fashion they abode till nightfall when Zayn al-Mawasif called for food and they set before her a tray wherein were all manner of dishes, quails and pigeons and mutton and so forth, whereof they ate their sufficiency. Then she bade take away the tables and they did so and fetched the lavatory gear; and they washed their hands, after which she ordered her women to bring the candlesticks, and they set on candelabra and candles therein of camphorated wax. Thereupon quoth Zayn al-Mawasif, "By Allah, my breast is straitened this night and I am afevered;" and quoth Masrur, "Allah broaden thy breast and banish thy bane!" Then she said, "O Masrur, I am used to play at chess: say me, knowest aught of the game?" He replied, "Yes; I am skilled therein;" whereupon she commanded her handmaid Hubub fetch her the chessboard. So she went away and presently returning with the board, set it before her, and behold, it was of ivory-marquetried ebony with squares marked in glittering gold, and its pieces of pearl and ruby.--And Shahrazad perceived the dawn of day and ceased to say her permitted say.
When it was the Eight Hundred and Forty-seventh Night