,
She said, It hath reached me, O auspicious King, that when Zayn al-Mawasif entered her house she was met by her sister Nasim who brought her the furniture and stuffs wherewith she furnished the place; and then she donned her finest dress. But Masrur knew naught of her return and abode with concern overcast and sorrow might not be overpast; no peace prevailed with him nor was patience possible to him. Whenas pine and passion, desire and distraction waxed on him, he would solace himself by reciting verse and go to the house and set him its walls to buss. It chanced that he went out that day to the place where he had parted from his mistress and repeated this rare song,
"My wrongs hide I, withal they show to sight; * And now mine eyes from sleep to wake are dight.  
 I cry when melancholy tries my sprite * Last not, O world nor work more despight;  
 Lo hangs my soul 'twixt hardship and affright.  
 Were the Sultan hight Love but fair to me, * Slumber mine eyes' companion were to me,  
 My Lords, some little mercy spare to me, * Chief of my tribe: be debonnair to me,  
 Whom Love cast down, erst rich now pauper-wight!
Censors may blame thee but I look beyond * Mine ears I stop and leave their lies unconned  
 And keep my pact wi' those I love so fond: * They say, 'Thou lov'st a runaway!' I respond,  
 'Whist! whenas Fate descends she blinds the sight!'"
Then he returned to his lodging and sat there weeping, till sleep overcame him, when he saw in a dream as if Zayn al-Mawasif were come to the house, and awoke in tears. So he set off to go thither, improvising these couplets,
"Shall I be consoled when Love hath mastered the secret of me * And my heart is aglow with more than the charcoal's ardency?  
 I love her whose absence I plain before Allah for parting-stower * And the shifts of the days and doom which allotted me Destiny:  
 When shall our meeting be, O wish O' my heart and will? * O favour of fullest Moon, when shall we Re-union see?"
As he made an end of his recitation, he found himself walking adown in Zayn al-Mawasif's street and smelt the sweet savour of the pastiles wherewithal she had incensed the house; wherefore his vitals fluttered and his heart was like to leave his breast and desire flamed up in him and distraction redoubled upon him; when lo, and behold! Hubub, on her way to do her lady's errand suddenly appeared at the head of the street and he rejoiced with joy exceeding. When she saw him, she went up to him and saluting him, gave him the glad news of her mistress's return, saying, "She hath sent me to bid thee to her." Whereat he was glad indeed, with gladness naught could exceed; and she took him and returned with him to the house. When Zayn al-Mawasif saw him, she came down to him from the couch and kissed him and he kissed her and she embraced him and he embraced her; nor did they leave kissing and embracing till both swooned away for stress of affection and separation. They lay a long while senseless, and when they revived, Zayn al-Mawasif bade Hubub fetch her a gugglet of sherbet of sugar and another of sherbet of lemons. So she brought what she desired and they sat eating and drinking nor ceased before nightfall, when they fell to recalling all that had befallen them from commencement to conclusion. Then she acquainted him with her return to Al-Islam, whereat he rejoiced and he also became a Moslem. On like wise did her women, and they ail repented to Allah Almighty of their infidelity. On the morrow she made send for the Kazi and the witnesses and told them that she was a widow and had completed the purification period and was minded to marry Masrur. So they drew up the wedding-contract between them and they abode in all delight of life. Meanwhile, the Jew, when the people of Adan released him from prison, set out homewards and fared on nor ceased faring till he came within three days' journey of the city. Now as soon as Zayn al-Mawasif heard of his coming she called for her handmaid Hubub and said to her, "Go to the Jews' burial-place and there dig a grave and plant on it sweet basil and jessamine and sprinkle water thereabout. If the Jew come and ask thee of me, answer, 'My mistress died twenty days ago of chagrin on thine account.' If he say, show me her tomb, take him to the grave and after weeping over it and making moan and lament before him, contrive to cast him therein and bury him alive." And Hubub answered, "I hear and I obey." Then they laid up the furniture in the store closets, and Zayn al-Mawasif removed to Masrur's lodging, where he and she abode eating and drinking, till the three days were past; at the end of which the Jew arrived and knocked at the door of his house. Quoth Hubub, "Who's at the door?"; and quoth he, "Thy master." So she opened to him and he saw the tears railing down her cheeks and said, "What aileth thee to weep and where is thy mistress?" She replied, "My mistress is dead of chagrin on thine account." When he heard this, he was perplexed and wept with sore weeping and presently said, "O Hubub, where is her tomb?" So she carried him to the Jews' burial-ground and showed him the grave she had dug; whereupon he shed bitter tears and recited this pair of couplets,
"Two things there are, for which if eyes wept tear on tear * Of blood, till they were like indeed to disappear,  
 They never could fulfil the Tithe of all their due: * And these are prime of youth and loss of loveling dear."
Then he wept again with bitter tears and recited these also,
"Alack and Alas! Patience taketh flight: * And from parting of friend to sore death I'm dight:  
 O how woeful this farness from dear one, and oh * How my heart is rent by mine own unright!  
 Would Heaven my secret I erst had kept * Nor had told the pangs and my liverblight:  
 I lived in all solace and joyance of life * Till she left and left me in piteous plight:  
 O Zayn al-Mawasif, I would there were * No parting departing my frame and sprite:  
 I repent me for troth-breach and blame my guilt * Of unruth to her whereon hopes I built."
When he had made an end of this verse, he wept and groaned and lamented till he fell down a-swoon, whereupon Hubub made haste to drag him to the grave and throw him in, whilst he was insensible yet quick withal. Then she stopped up the grave on him and returning to her mistress acquainted her with what had passed, whereat she rejoiced with exceeding joy and recited these two couplets,
"The world sware that for ever 'twould gar me grieve: *Tis false, O world, so thine oath retrieve!  
 The blamer is dead and my love's in my arms: * Rise to herald of joys and tuck high thy sleeve!"
Then she and Masrur abode each with other in eating and drinking and sport and pleasure and good cheer, till there came to them the Destroyer of delights and Sunderer of societies and Slayer of sons and daughters. And I have also heard tell the following tale of...
 There was once in days of yore and in ages and times long gone before in the
  parts of Cairo, a merchant named Taj al-Din who was of the most considerable
  of the merchants and of the chiefs of the freeborn. But he was given to travelling
  everywhere and loved to fare over wild and wold, waterless lowland and stony
  waste, and to journey to the isles of the seas, in quest of dirhams and dinars:
  wherefore he had in his time encountered dangers and suffered duresse of the
  way such as would grizzle little children and turn their black hair grey. He
  was possessed of black slaves and Mamelukes, eunuchs and concubines, and was
  the wealthiest of the merchants of his time and the goodliest of them in speech,
  owning horses and mules and Bactrian camels and dromedaries; sacks great and
  small of size; goods and merchandise and stuffs such as muslins of Hums, silks
  and brocades of Ba'allak, cotton of Mery, stuffs of India, gauzes of Baghdad,
  burnouses of Moorland and Turkish white slaves and Abyssinian castratos and
  Grecian girls and Egyptian boys; and the coverings of his bales were silk with
  gold purfled fair, for he was wealthy beyond compare. Furthermore he was rare
  of comeliness, accomplished in goodliness, and gracious in his kindliness,
 even as one of his describers doth thus express, 
"A merchant I spied whose lovers * Were fighting in furious guise:  
 Quoth he, 'Why this turmoil of people?' * Quoth I, 'Trader, for those fine eyes!'"
And saith another in his praise and saith well enough to accomplish the wish of him,
"Came a merchant to pay us a visit * Whose glance did my heart surprise:  
 Quoth he, 'What surprised thee so?' * Quoth I, 'Trader, 'twas those fine eyes.'"
Now that merchant had a son called Ali Nur al-Din, as he were the full moon whenas it meeteth the sight on its fourteenth night, a marvel of beauty and loveliness, a model of form and symmetrical grace, who was sitting one day as was his wont, in his father's shop, selling and buying, giving and taking, when the sons of the merchants girt him around and he was amongst them as moon among stars, with brow flower-white and cheeks of rosy light in down the tenderest dight, and body like alabaster-bright even as saith of him the poet,
"'Describe me!' a fair one said. * Said I, 'Thou art Beauty's queen.'  
 And, speaking briefest speech, * 'All charms in thee are seen.'"
And as saith of him one of his describers,
"His mole upon plain of cheek is like * Ambergris-crumb on marble plate,  
 And his glances likest the sword proclaim * To all Love's rebels 'The Lord is Great!'" 
The young merchants invited him saying, "O my lord Nur al-Din, we wish thee to go this day a-pleasuring with us in such a garden." And he answered, "Wait till I consult my parent, for I cannot go without his consent." As they were talking, behold, up came Taj al-Din, and his son looked at him and said, "O father mine, the sons of the merchants have invited me to wend a-pleasuring with them in such a garden. Dost thou grant me leave to go?" His father replied, "Yes, O my son, fare with them;" and gave him somewhat of money. So the young men mounted their mules and asses and Nur al-Din mounted a she-mule and rode with them to a garden, wherein was all that sould desireth and that eye charmeth. It was high of walls which from broad base were seen to rise; and it had a gateway vault-wise with a portico like a saloon and a door azure as the skies, as it were one of the gates of Paradise: the name of the door-keeper was Rizwan, and over the gate were trained an hundred trellises which grapes overran; and these were of various dyes, the red like coralline, the black like the snouts of Sudan-men and the white like egg of the pigeon-hen. And in it peach and pomegranate were shown and pear, apricot and pomegranate were grown and fruits with and without stone hanging in clusters or alone,--And Shahrazad perceived the dawn of day and ceased to say her permitted say.
 When it was the Eight Hundred and Sixty-fourth Night