,
She continued, It hath reached me, O auspicious King, that when the sons of the merchants entered the vergier, they found therein all that soul desireth or eye charmeth, grapes of many hues grown, hanging in bunches or alone, even as saith of them the poet,
"Grapes tasting with the taste of wine * Whose coats like blackest Raven's shine:  
 Their sheen, amid the leafage shows, * Like women's fingers henna'd fine."
And as saith another on the same theme,
"Grape-bunches likest as they sway * A-stalk, my body frail and snell:  
 Honey and water thus in jar, * When sourness past, make Hydromel."
Then they entered the arbour of the garden and say there Rizwan the gate-keeper sitting, as he were Rizwan the Paradise-guardian, and on the door were written these lines,
"Garth Heaven-watered wherein clusters waved * On boughs which full of sap to bend were fain:  
 And, when the branches danced on Zephyr's palm, * The Pleiads shower'd as gifts fresh pearls for rain."
And within the arbour were written these two couplets,
"Come with us, friend, and enter thou * This garth that cleanses rust of grief:  
 Over their skits the Zephyrs trip * And flowers in sleeve to laugh are lief." 
So they entered and found all manner fruits in view and birds of every kind and hue, such as ringdove, nightingale and curlew; and the turtle and the cushat sang their love lays on the sprays. Therein were rills that ran with limpid wave and flowers suave; and bloom for whose perfume we crave and it was even as saith of it the poet in these two couplets,
"The Zephyr breatheth o'er its branches, like * Fair girls that trip as in fair skirts they pace:  
 Its rills resemble swords in hands of knights * Drawn from the scabbard and containing-case." 
And again as singeth the songster,
"The streamlet swings by branchy wood and aye * Joys in its breast those beauties to display;  
 And Zephyr noting this, for jealousy * Hastens and bends the branches other way."
On the trees of the garden were all manner fruits, each in two sorts, amongst them the pomegranate, as it were a ball of silver-dross, whereof saith the poet and saith right well, 
"Granados of finest skin, like the breasts * Of maid firm-standing in sight of male;  
 When I strip the skin, they at once display * The rubies compelling all sense to quail."
And even as quoth another bard,
"Close prest appear to him who views th' inside * Red rubies in brocaded skirts bedight:  
 Granado I compare with marble dome * Or virgin's breasts delighting every sight:  
 Therein is cure for every ill as e'en * Left an Hadis the Prophet pure of sprite;  
 And Allah (glorify His name) eke deigned * A noble say in Holy Book indite. 
The apples were the sugared and the musky and the Damani, amazing the beholder, whereof saith Hassan the poet,
"Apple which joins hues twain, and brings to mind * The cheek of lover and beloved combined:  
 Two wondrous opposites on branch they show * This dark and that with hue incarnadined  
 The twain embraced when spied the spy and turned * This red, that yellow for the shame designed." 
There also were apricots of various kinds, almond and camphor and Jilani and 'Antabi, wereof saith the poet, 
"And Almond-apricot suggesting swain * Whose lover's visit all his wits hath ta'en.  
 Enough of love-sick lovers' plight it shows * Of face deep yellow and heart torn in twain." 
And saith another and saith well,
"Look at that Apricot whose bloom contains * Gardens with brightness gladding all men's eyne:  
 Like stars the blossoms sparkle when the boughs * Are clad in foliage dight with sheen and shine."
There likewise were plums and cherries and grapes, that the sick of all diseases assain and do away giddiness and yellow choler from the brain; and figs the branches between, varicoloured red and green, amazing sight and sense, even as saith the poet,
"'Tis as the Figs with clear white skins outthrown * By foliaged trees, athwart whose green they peep,  
 Were sons of Roum that guard the palace-roof * When shades close in and night-long ward they keep." 
And saith another and saith well,
"Welcome the Fig! To us it comes * Ordered in handsome plates they bring:  
 Likest a Surfah-cloth we draw * To shape of bag without a ring."
And how well saith a third,
"Give me the Fig sweet-flavoured, beauty-clad, * Whose inner beauties rival outer sheen:  
 And when it fruits thou tastest it to find * Chamomile's scent and Sugar's saccharine: And eke it favoureth on platters poured * Puff-balls of silken thread and sendal green."
And how excellent is the saying of one of them,
"Quoth they (and I had trained my taste thereto * Nor cared for other fruits whereby they swore),  
 'Why lovest so the Fig?' whereto quoth I * 'Some men love Fig and others Sycamore.'"
And are yet goodlier those of another,
"Pleaseth me more the fig than every fruit * When ripe and hanging from the sheeny bough;  
 Like Devotee who, when the clouds pour rain, * Sheds tears and Allah's power doth avow."
And in that garth were also pears of various kinds Sinaitic, Aleppine and Grecian growing in clusters and alone, parcel green and parcel golden.--And Shahrazad perceived the dawn of day and ceased saying her permitted say.
 When it was the Eight Hundred and Sixty-fifth Night