,
She resume, It hath reached me, O auspicious King, that when the sons of the merchants sat down in the pavilion they seated Nur al-Din in their midst on a rug of gold-purfled leather of Al-Taif, leaning on a pillow of minever, stuffed with ostrich down. And they gave him a fan of ostrich feathers, whereon were written these two couplets,
"A fan whose breath is fraught with fragrant scent; * Minding of happy days and times forspent,  
 Wafting at every time its perfumed air * O'er face of noble youth on honour bent."
Then they laid by their turbands and outer clothes and sat talking and chatting and inducing one another to discourse, while they all kept their eyes fixed on Nur al-Din and gazed on his beauteous form. After the sitting had lasted an hour or so, up came a slave with a tray on his head, wherein were platters of china and crystal containing viands of all sorts (for one of the youths had so charged his people before coming to the garden); and the meats were of whatever walketh earth or wingeth air or swimmeth waters, such as Kata-grouse and fat quails and pigeon-poults and mutton and chickens and the delicatest fish. So, the tray being sat before them, they fell to and ate their fill; and when they had made an end of eating, they rose from meat and washed their hands with pure water and musk-scented soap, and dried them with napery embroidered in silk and bugles; but to Nur al-Din they brought a napkin laced with red gold whereon he wiped his hands. Then coffee was served up and each drank what he would, after which they sat talking, till presently the garden-keeper who was young went away and returning with a basket full of roses, said to them, "What say ye, O my masters, to flowers?" Quoth one of them, "There is no harm in them, especially roses, which are not to be resisted." Answered the gardener, "'Tis well, but it is of our wont not to give roses but in exchange for pleasant converse; so whoever would take aught thereof, let him recite some verses suitable to the situation." Now they were ten sons of merchants of whom one said, "Agreed: give me thereof and I will recite thee somewhat of verse apt to the case." Accordingly the gardener gave him a bunch of roses which he took and at once improvised these three couplets,
"The Rose in highest stead I rate * For that her charms ne'er satiate;  
 All fragrant flow'rs be troops to her * Their general of high estate:  
 Where she is not they boast and vaunt; * But, when she comes, they stint their prate."
Then the gardener gave a bunch to another and he recited these two couplets, 
"Take, O my lord, to thee the Rose * Recalling scent by mush be shed.  
 Like virginette by lover eyed * Who with her sleeves enveileth head."
Then he gave a bunch to a third who recited these two couplets,
"Choice Rose that gladdens heart to see her sight; * Of Nadd recalling fragrance exquisite.  
 The branchlets clip her in her leaves for joy, * Like kiss of lips that never spake in spite."
Then he gave a bunch to a fourth and he recited these two couplets,
"Seest not that rosery where Rose a-flowering displays * Mounted upon her steed of stalk those marvels manifold?  
 As though the bud were ruby-stone and girded all around * With chrysolite and held within a little hoard of gold."
Then he gave a posy to a fifth and he recited these two couplets,
"Wands of green chrysolite bare issue, which * Were fruits like ingots of the growing gold.  
 And drops, a dropping from its leaves, were like * The tears my languorous eyelids railed and rolled."
Then he gave a sixth a bunch and he recited these two couplets,
"O Rose, thou rare of charms that dost contain * All gifts and Allah's secrets singular,  
 Thou'rt like the loved one's cheek where lover fond * And fain of Union sticks the gold dinar." 
Then he gave a bunch to a seventh and he recited these two couplets,
"To Rose quoth I, 'What gars thy thorns to be put forth * For all who touch thee cruellest injury?'  
 Quoth she, 'These flowery troops are troops of me * Who be their lord with spines for armoury.'"
And he gave an eighth a bunch and he recited these two couplets,
"Allah save the Rose which yellows a-morn * Florid, vivid and likest the nugget-ore;  
 And bless the fair sprays that displayed such fowers * And mimic suns gold-begilded bore."
Then he gave a bunch to a ninth and he recited these two couplets,
"The bushes of golden-hued Rose excite * In the love-sick lover joys manifold:  
 'Tis a marvel shrub watered every day * With silvern lymph and it fruiteth gold."
Then he gave a bunch of roses to the tenth and last and he recited these two couplets,
"Seest not how the hosts of the Rose display * Red hues and yellow in rosy field?  
 I compare the Rose and her arming thorn * To emerald lance piercing golden shield."
And whilst each one hent bunch in hand, the gardener brought the wine-service and setting it before them, on a tray of porcelain arabesqued with red gold, recited these two couplets,
"Dawn heralds day-light: so wine pass round, * Old wine, fooling sage till his wits he tyne:  
 Wot I not for its purest clarity * An 'tis wine in cup or 'tis cup in wine." 
Then the gardener filled and drank and the cup went round, till it came to Nur al-Din's turn, whereupon the man filled and handed it to him; but he said, "This thing I wot it not nor have I ever drunken thereof, for therein is great offence and the Lord of All-might hath forbidden it in His Book." Answered the gardener, "O my Lord Nur al-Din, an thou forbear to drink only by reason of the sin, verily Allah (extolled and exalted be He!) is bountiful, of sufferance great, forgiving and compassionate and pardoneth the mortalest sins: His mercy embraceth all things, Allah's ruth be upon the poet who saith,
'Be as thou, wilt, for Allah is bountiful * And when thou sinnest feel thou naught alarm:  
 But 'ware of twofold sins nor ever dare * To give God partner or mankind to harm.'"
Then quoth one of the sons of the merchants, "My life on thee, O my lord Nur al-Din, drink of this cup!" And another conjured him by the oath of divorce and yet another stood up persistently before him, till he was ashamed and taking the cup from the gardener, drank a draught, but spat it out again, crying, "'Tis bitter." Said the young gardener, "O my lord Nur al-Din, knowest thou not that sweets taken by way of medicine are bitter? Were this not bitter, 'twould lack of the manifold virtues it possesseth; amongst which are that it digesteth food and disperseth cark and care and dispelleth flatulence and clarifieth the blood and cleareth the complexion and quickeneth the body and hearteneth the hen-hearted and fortifieth the sexual power in man; but to name all its virtues would be tedious. Quoth one of the poets,
'We'll drink and Allah pardon sinners all * And cure of ills by sucking cups I'll find:  
 Nor aught the sin deceives me; yet said He * 'In it there be advantage to mankind.'"
Then he sprang up without stay or delay and opened one of the cupboards in the pavilion and taking out a loaf of refined sugar, broke off a great slice which he put into Nur al-Din's cup, saying, "O my lord, an thou fear to drink wine, because of its bitterness, drink now, for 'tis sweet." So he took the cup and emptied it: whereupon one of his comrades filled him another, saying, "O my lord Nur al-Din, I am thy slave," and another did the like, saying, "I am one of thy servants," and a third said, "For my sake!" and a fourth, "Allah upon thee, O my lord Nur al-Din, heal my heart!" And so they ceased not plying him with wine, each and every of the ten sons of merchants till they had made him drink a total of ten cups. Now Nur al-Din's body was virgin of wine-bibbing, or never in all his life had he drunken vine-juice till that hour, wherefore its fumes wrought in his brain and drunkenness was stark upon him and he stood up (and indeed his tongue was thick and his speech stammering) and said, "O company, by Allah, ye are fair and your speech is goodly and your place pleasant; but there needeth hearing of sweet music; for drink without melody lacks the chief of its essentiality, even as saith the poet, 
'Pass round the cup to the old and the young man, too, And take the bowl from the hand of the shining moon, But without music, I charge you, forbear to drink; I see even horses drink to a whistled tune.'" 
 Therewith up sprang the gardener lad and mounting one of the young men's mules, was absent awhile, after which he returned with a Cairene girl, as she were a sheep's tail, fat and delicate, or an ingot of pure silvern ore or a dinar on a porcelain plate or a gazelle in the wold forlore. She had a face that put to shame the shining sun and eyes Babylonian and brows like bows bended and cheeks rose-painted and teeth pearly-hued and lips sugared and glances languishing and breast ivory white and body slender and slight, full of folds and with dimples dight and hips like pillows stuffed and thighs like columns of Syrian stone, and between them what was something like a sachet of spices in wrapper swathed. Quoth the poet of her in these couplets,
"Had she shown her shape to idolaters' sight, * They would gaze on her face and their gods detest:  
 And if in the East to a monk she'd show'd, * He'd quit Eastern posture and bow to West.  
 An she crached in the sea and the briniest sea * Her lips would give it the sweetest zest."
And quoth another in these couplets,
"Brighter than Moon at full with kohl'd eyes she came * Like Doe, on chasing whelps of Lioness intent:  
 Her night of murky locks lets fall a tent on her * A tent of hair that lacks no pegs to hold the tent;  
 And roses lighting up her roseate cheeks are fed * By hearts and livers flowing fire for languishment:  
 An 'spied her all the Age's Fair to her they'd rise * Humbly, and cry 'The meed belongs to precedent!'"
And how well saith a third bard,
"Three things for ever hinder her to visit us, for fear Of the intriguing spy and eke the rancorous envier; Her forehead's lustre and the sound of all her ornaments And the sweet scent her creases hold of ambergris and myrth. Grant with the border of her sleeve she hide her brow and doff Her ornaments, how shall she do her scent away from her?"
She was like the moon when at fullest on its fourteenth night, and was clad in a garment of blue, with a veil of green, overbrown flower-white that all wits amazed and those of understanding amated.--And Shahrazad perceived the dawn of day and ceased saying his permitted say.
 When it was the Eight Hundred and Sixty-seventh Night