,
She continued, It hath reached me, O auspicious King, that the broker said to the merchant, "Thou hast heard what this handmaid said to thy fellows, the traders, and by Allah, I fear to bring her to thee, lest she do with thee like as she did with thy neighbours and so I fall into disgrace with thee: but, an thou bid me bring her to thee, I will bring her." Quoth the merchant, "Hither with her to me." "Hearing and obeying," answered the broker and fetched for the purchaser the damsel, who looked at him and said, "O my lord, Shihab al-Din, hast thou in thy house round cushions stuffed with ermine strips?" Replied Shihab al-Din, "Yes, O Princess of fair ones, I have at home half a score such cushions; but I conjure thee by Allah, tell me, what will thou do with them?" Quoth she, "I will bear with thee till thou be asleep, when I will lay them on thy mouth and nose and press them down till thou die." Then she turned to the broker and said to him, "O thou refuse of brokers, meseemeth thou art mad, in that thou showest me this hour past, first to a pair of greybeards, in each of whom are two faults, and then thou proferrest me to my lord Shihab al-Din wherein be three defects; and thirdly, he is dwarfish, secondly, he hath a nose which is big, and thirdly, he hath a beard which is long. Of him quoth one of the poets,
'We never heard of wight nor yet espied * Who amid men three gifts hath unified:  
 To wit, a beard one cubit long, a snout * Span-long and figure tall a finger wide:'
And quoth another poet,
'From the plain of his face springs a minaret * Like a bezel of ring on his finger set:  
 Did creation enter that vasty nose * No created thing would elsewhere be met.'"
When Shihab al-Din heard this, he came down from his shop and seized the broker by the collar, saying, "O scurviest of brokers, what aileth thee to bring us a damsel to flout and make mock of us, one after other, with her verses and talk that a curse is?" So the broker took her and carried her away from before him and fared, saying, "By Allah, all my life long, since I have plied this profession never set I eyes on the like of thee for unmannerliness nor aught more curst to me than thy star, for thou hast cut off my livelihood this day and I have gained no profit by thee save cuffs on the neck-nape and catching by the collar!" Then he brought her to the shop of another merchant, owner of negro slaves and white servants, and stationing her before him, said to her, "Wilt thou be sold to this my lord 'Ala al-Din?" She looked at him and seeing him hump-backed, said, "This is a Gobbo, and quoth the poet of him, 
'Drawn in thy shoulders are and spine thrust out, * As seeking star which Satan gave the lout;  
 Or as he tasted had first smack of scourge * And looked in marvel for a second bout.'
And saith another on the same theme,
'As one of you who mounted mule, * A sight for me to ridicule:  
 Is 't not a farce? Who feels surprise * An start and bolt with him the mule?'
And another on a similar subject,
'Oft hunchback addeth to his bunchy back * Faults which gar folk upon his front look black:  
 Like branch distort and dried by length of days * With citrons hanging from it loose and slack.'"
With this the broker hurried up to her and, carrying her to another merchant, said to her, "Wilt thou be sold to this one?" She looked at him and said, "In very sooth this man is blue-eyed; how wilt thou sell me to him?" Quoth one of the poets,
'His eyelids sore and bleared * Weakness of frame denote:  
 Arise, ye folk and see * Within his eyes the mote!'"
Then the broker carried her to another and she looked at him and seeing that he had a long beard, said to the broker, "Fie upon thee! This is a ram, whose tail hath sprouted from his gullet. Wilt thou sell me to him, O unluckiest of brokers? Hast thou not heard say: 'All long of beard are little of wits? Indeed, after the measure of the length of the beard is the lack of sense; and this is a well-known thing among men of understanding.' As saith one of the poets,
'Ne'er was a man with beard grown overlong, * Tho' be he therefor reverenced and fear'd,  
 But who the shortness noted in his wits * Added to longness noted in his beard.'
And quoth another, 
'I have a friend with a beard which God hath made to grow to a useless length, It is like unto one of the nights of winter long and dark and cold.'"
With this the broker took her and turned away with her, and she asked, "Whither goest thou with me?" He answered, "Back to thy master the Persian; it sufficeth me what hath befallen me because of thee this day; for thou hast been the means of spoiling both my trade and his by thine ill manners." Then she looked about the market right and left, front and rear till, by the decree of the Decreer her eyes fell on Ali Nur al-Din the Cairene. So she gazed at him and saw him to be a comely youth of straight slim form and smooth of face, fourteen years old, rare in beauty and loveliness and elegance and amorous grace like the full moon on the fourteenth night with forehead flower-white, and cheeks rosy red, neck like alabaster and teeth than jewels and dews of lips sweeter than sugar, even as saith of him one of his describers,
"Came to match him in beauty and loveliness rare * Full moons and gazelles but quoth I, 
 'Soft fare!  
 Fare softly, gazelles, nor yourselves compare * With him and, O Moons, all your pains forbear!'"
And how well saith another bard,
"Slim-waisted loveling, from his hair and brow * Men wake a-morn in night and light renewed.  
 Blame not the mole that dwelleth on his cheek * For Nu'uman's bloom aye shows spot negro-hued."
When the slave-girl beheld Nur al-Din he interposed between her and her wits; she fell in love to him with a great and sudden fall and her heart was taken with affection for him;--And Shahrazad perceived the dawn of day and ceased saying her permitted say.
 When it was the Eight Hundred and Seventy-third Night