,
She continued, It hath reached me, O auspicious King, that when the old skipper had made sail he drave the ship, aided by Nur al-Din, into the dashing sea before a favouring gale. Meanwhile, Nur al-Din held on to the tackle immersed in deep thought, and drowned in the sea of solicitude, knowing not what was hidden for him in the future; and whenever he looked at the captain, his heart quaked and he knew not whither the Rais went with him. He abode thus, preoccupied with care and doubt, till it was high day, when he looked at the skipper and saw him take hold of his long beard and pull at it, whereupon it came off in his hand and Nur al-Din, examining it, saw that it was but a false beard glued on. So he straitly considered that same Rais, and behold, it was the Princess Miriam, his mistress and the dearling of his heart, who had contrived to waylay the captain and slay him and skinned off his beard, which she had stuck on to her own face. At this Nur al-Din was transported for you, and his breast broadened and he marvelled at her prowess and the stoutness of her heart and said to her, "Welcome, O my hope and my desire and the end of mine every wish!" Then love and gladness agitated him and he made sure of winning to his hopes and his expectancy; wherefore he broke out into song and chanted these couplets,
"To all who unknown my love for the May * From whom Fate disjoins me O say, I pray,  
 'Ask my kith and kin of my love that aye * Ensweetens my verses to lovely lay:  
 For the loss of the tribesmen my life o'er sway!'
Their names when named heal all malady; * Cure and chase from heart every pain I dree:  
 And my longings for love reach so high degree * That my Sprite is maddened each morn I see,  
 And am grown of the crowd to be saw and say.
No blame in them will I e'er espy: * No! nor aught of solace sans them descry:  
 Your love hath shot me with pine, and I * Bear in heart a flame that shall never die,  
 But fire my liver with fiery ray.
All folk my sickness for marvel score * That in darkest night I wake evermore  
 What ails them to torture this heart forlore * And deem right for loving my blood t' outpour:  
 And yet--how justly unjust are they!
Would I wot who 'twas could obtain of you * To wrong a youth who's so fain of you:  
 By my life and by Him who made men of you * And the spy tell aught I complain of you  
 He lies, by Allah, in foulest way!
May the Lord my sickness never dispel, * Nor ever my heart of its pains be well,  
 What day I regret that in love I fell * Or laud any land but wherein ye dwell:  
 Wring my heart and ye will or make glad and gay!
I have vitals shall ever be true to you * Though racked by the rigours not new to you  
 Ere this wrong and this right I but sue to you: * Do what you will to thrall who to you  
 Shall ne'er grudge his life at your feet to lay."
When Nur al-Din ceased to sing, the Princess Miriam marvelled at his song and thanked him therefor, saying, "Whoso's case is thus it behoveth him to walk the ways of men and never do the deed of curs and cowards." Now she was stout of heart and cunning in the sailing of ships over the salt sea, and she knew all the winds and their shiftings and every course of the main. So Nur al-Din said, "O my lady, hadst thou prolonged this case on me, I had surely died for stress of affright and chagrin, more by token of the fire of passion and love-longing and the cruel pangs of separation." She laughed at his speech and rising without stay or delay brought out somewhat of food and liquor; and they ate and drank and enjoyed themselves and made merry. Then she drew forth rubies and other gems and precious stones and costly trinkets of gold and silver and all manner things of price, light of weight and weighty of worth, which she had taken from the palace of her sire and his treasuries, and displayed them to Nur al-Din, who rejoiced therein with joy exceeding. All this while the wind blew fair for them and merrily sailed the ship nor ceased sailing till they drew near the city of Alexandria and sighted its landmarks, old and new, and Pompey's Pillar. When they made the port, Nur al-Din landed forthright and securing the ship to one of the Fulling-Stones, took somewhat of the treasures that Miriam had brought with her, and said to her, "O my lady, tarry in the ship, against I return and carry thee up into the city in such way as I should wish and will." Quoth she, "It behoveth that this be done quickly, for tardiness in affairs engendereth repentance." Quoth he, "There is no tardiness in me;" and, leaving her in the ship, went up into the city to the house of the druggist his father's old fried, to borrow of his wife for Miriam veil and mantilla, and walking boots and petticoat-trousers after the usage of the women of Alexandria, unknowing that there was appointed to betide him of the shifts of Time, the Father of Wonders, that which was far beyond his reckoning. Thus it befel Nur al-Din and Miriam the Girdle-girl; but as regards her sire the King of France, when he arose in the morning, he missed his daughter and questioned her women and her eunuchs of her. Answered they, "O our lord, she went out last night, to go to Church and after that we have no tidings of her." But, as the King talked with them, behold, there arose so great a clamour of cries below the palace, that the place rang thereto, and he said, "What may be the news?" The folk replied, "O King, we have found ten men slain on the sea-shore, and the royal yacht is missing. Moreover we saw the postern of the Church, which giveth upon the tunnel leading to the sea, wide open; and the Moslem prisoner, who served in the Church, is missing." Quoth the King, "An my ship be lost, without doubt or dispute."--And Shahrazad perceived the dawn of day and ceased saying her permitted say.
 When it was the Eight Hundred and Eighty-fifth Night