, 
She resumed, It hath reached me, O auspicious King, that the young man continued to describe before the Prince of True Believers the young lady's characteristics, saying, "She was like the full moon on her fourteenth night, a model of grace and symmetry and loveliness. Her speech shamed the tones of the lute, and it was as it were she whom the poet meant in these verses, 
'She cried while played in her side Desire, * And Night o'er hung her with blackest blee:--  
 'O Night shall thy murk bring me ne'er a chum * To tumble and futter this coynte of me?'  
 And she smote that part with her palm and sighed * Sore sighs and a-weeping continued she,  
 'As the toothstick beautifies teeth e'en so * Must prickle to coynte as a toothstick be.  
 O Moslems, is never a stand to your tools, * To assist a woman's necessity?'  
 Thereat rose upstanding beneath its clothes * My yard, as crying, 'At thee! at thee!'  
 And I loosed her trouser-string, startling her: * 'Who art thou?' and I said, 'A reply to thy plea!'  
 And began to stroke her with wrist-thick yard, * Hurting hinder cheeks by its potency:  
 And she cried as I rose after courses three * 'Suit thy gree the stroke!' and I--'suit thy gree!' 
And how excellent is the saying of another!, 
'A fair one, to idolaters if she her face should show, They'd leave their idols and her face for only Lord would know. If in the Eastward she appeared unto a monk, for sure, He'd cease from turning to the West and to the East bend low; And if into the briny sea one day she chanced to spit, Assuredly the salt sea's floods straight fresh and sweet would grow.' 
And that of another, 
'I looked at her one look and that dazed me * Such rarest gifts of mind and form to see,  
 When doubt inspired her that I loved her, and * Upon her cheeks the doubt showed showily.' 
I saluted her and she said to me, 'Well come and welcome, and fair welcome!'; and taking me by the hand, 
 O Prince of True Believers, made me sit down by her side; whereupon, of the excess of my desire, I fell a-weeping for fear of severance and pouring forth the tears of the eye, recited these two couplets,
'I love the nights of parting though I joy not in the same * Time haply may exchange them for the boons of Union-day:  
 And the days that bring Union I unlove for single thought, * Seeing everything in life lacking steadfastness of stay.'
Then she strave to solace me with soft sweet speech, but I was drowned in the deeps of passion, fearing even in union the pangs of disunion, for excess of longing and ecstasy of passion; and I bethought me of the lowe of absence and estrangement and repeated these two couplets, 
'I thought of estrangement in her embrace * And my eyes rained tears red as 'Andam-wood.  
 So I wiped the drops on that long white neck; * For camphor is wont to stay flow of blood.'
Then she bade bring food and there came four damsels, high-bosomed girls and virginal, who set before us food and fruits and confections and flowers and wine, such as befit none save kings. So, O Commander of the Faithful, we ate, and sat over our wine, compassed about with blooms and herbs of sweet savour, in a chamber suitable only for kings. Presently, one of her maids brought her a silken bag, which she opened and taking thereout a lute, laid it in her lap and smote its strings, whereat it complained as child complaineth to mother, and she sang these two couplets,
'Drink not pure wine except from hand of slender youth * Like wine for daintiness and like him eke the wine:  
 For wine no joyance brings to him who drains the cup * Save bring the cup-boy cheek as fair and fain and fine.'
So, I abode with her, O Commander of the Faithful, month after month in similar guise, till all my money was spent; wherefore I began to bethink me of separation as I sat with her one day and my tears railed down upon my cheeks like rills, and I became not knowing night from light. Quoth she, 'Why dost thou weep?'; and quoth I, 'O light of mine eyes, I weep because of our parting.' She asked, 'And what shall part me and thee, O my lord?'; and I answered, 'By Allah, O my lady, from the day I came to thee, thy father hath taken of me, for every night, five hundred dinars, and now I have nothing left. Right soothfast is the saw, 'Penury maketh strangerhood at home and money maketh a home in strangerhood'; and indeed the poet speaks truth when he saith, 
'Lack of good is exile to man at home; * And money shall house him where'er he roam.'
She replied, 'Know that it is my father's custom, whenever a merchant abideth with him and hath spent all his capital, to entertain him three days; then doth he put him out and he may return to us nevermore. But keep thou thy secret and conceal thy case and I will so contrive that thou shalt abide with me till such time as Allah will; for, indeed, there is in my heart a great love for thee. Thou must know that all my father's money is under my hand and he wotteth not its full tale; so, every morning, I will give thee a purse of five hundred dinars which do thou offer to my sire, saying, 'Henceforth, I will pay thee only day by day.' He will hand the sum to me, and I will give it to thee again, and we will abide thus till such time as may please Allah.' Thereupon I thanked her and kissed her hand; and on this wise, O Prince of True Believers, I abode with her a whole year, till it chanced on a certain day that she beat one of her handmaids grievously and the slave-girl said, 'By Allah, I will assuredly torture thy heart, even as thou hast tortured me!' So she went to the girl's father and exposed to him all that had passed, first and last, which when Tahir ibn Alaa heard he arose forthright and coming in to me, as I sat with his daughter, said, 'Ho, such an one!'; and I said, 'At thy service.' Quoth he, ''Tis our wont, when a merchant grow poor with us, to give him hospitality three days; but thou hast had a year with us, eating and drinking and doing what thou wouldst.' Then he turned to his pages and cried to them, 'Pull off his clothes.' They did as he bade them and gave me ten dirhams and an old suit worth five silvers; after which he said to me, 'Go forth; I will not beat thee nor abuse thee; but wend thy ways and if thou tarry in this town, thy blood be upon thine own head.' So I went forth, O Commander of the Faithful, in my own despite, knowing not whither to hie, for had fallen on my heart all the trouble in the world and I was occupied with sad thought and doubt. Then I bethought me of the wealth which I had brought from Oman and said in myself, 'I came hither with a thousand thousand dinars, part price of thirty ships, and have made away with it all in the house of yonder ill-omened man, and now I go forth from him, bare and broken-hearted! But there is no Majesty and there is no Might save in Allah, the Glorious, the Great!' Then I abode three days in Baghdad, without tasting meat or drink, and on the fourth day seeing a ship bound for Bassorah, I took passage in her of the owner, and when we reached our port, I landed and went into the bazar, being sore anhungered. Presently, a man saw me, a grocer, whom I had known aforetime, and coming up to me, embraced me, for he had been my friend and my father's friend before me. Then he questioned me of my case, seeing me clad in those tattered clothes; so I told him all that had befallen me, and he said, 'By Allah, this is not the act of a sensible man! But after this that hath befallen thee what dost thou purpose to do?' Quoth I, 'I know not what I shall do,' and quoth he, 'Wilt thou abide with me and write my outgo and income and thou shalt have two dirhams a day, over and above thy food and drink?' I agreed to this and abode with him, O Prince of True Believers, selling and buying, till I had gotten an hundred dinars; when I hired me an upper chamber by the river-side, so haply a ship should come up with merchandise, that I might buy goods with the dinars and go back with them to Baghdad. Now it fortuned that one day, there came ships with merchandise, and all the merchants resorted to them to buy, and I went with them on board, when behold, there came two men out of the hold and setting themselves chairs on the deck, sat down thereon. The merchants addressed themselves to the twain with intent to buy, and the man said to one of the crew, 'Bring the carpet.' Accordingly he brought the carpet and spread it, and another came with a pair of saddle-bags, whence he took a budget and emptied it on the carpet; and our sights were dazzled with that which issued therefrom of pearls and corals and jacinths and carnelians and other jewels of all sorts and colours."--And Shahrazad perceived the dawn of day and ceased saying her permitted say.
When it was the Nine Hundred and Fifty-first Night