,
She said, It hath reached me, O auspicious King, that the young merchant, after recounting to the Caliph the matter of the bag and its containing jewels of all sorts, continued, "Presently, O Commander of the Faithful, said one of the men on the chairs, 'O company of merchants, we will sell but this to-day, by way of spending-money, for that we are weary.' So the merchants fell to bidding one against other for the jewels and bid till the price reached four hundred dinars. Then said to me the owner of the bag (for he was an old acquaintance of mine, and when he saw me, he came down to me and saluted me), 'Why dost thou not speak and bid like the rest of the merchants?' I said, 'O my lord, by Allah, the shifts of fortune have run against me and I have lost my wealth and have only an hundred dinars left in the world.' Quoth he, 'O Omani, after this vast wealth, can only an hundred dinars remain to thee?' And I was abashed before him and my eyes filled with tears; whereupon he looked at me and indeed my case was grievous to him. So he said to the merchants, 'Bear witness against me that I have sold all that is in this bag of various gems and precious stones to this man for an hundred gold pieces, albeit I know them to be worth so many thousand dinars, and this is a present from me to him.' Then he gave me the saddle-bag and the carpet, with all the jewels that were thereon, for which I thanked him, and each and every of the merchants present praised him. Presently I carried all this to the jewel-market and sat there to sell and buy. Now among the precious stones was a round amulet of the handi-work of the masters, weighing half a pound: it was red of the brightest, a carnelian on both whose sides were graven characts and characters, like the tracks of ants; but I knew not its worth. I sold and bought a whole year, at the end of which I took the amulet and said, 'This hath been with me some while, and I know not what it is nor what may be its value.' So I gave it to the broker who took it and went round with it and returned, saying, 'None of the merchants will give me more than ten dirhams for it.' Quoth I, 'I will not sell it at that price;' and he threw it in my face and went away. Another day I again offered it for sale and its price reached fifteen dirhams; whereupon I took it from the broker in anger and threw it back into the tray. But a few days after, as I sat in my shop, there came up to me a man, who bore the traces of travel, and saluting me, said, 'By thy leave, I will turn over what thou hast of wares.' Said I, ''Tis well,' and indeed, O Commander of the Faithful, I was still wroth by reason of the lack of demand for the talisman. So the man fell to turning over my wares, but took nought thereof save the amulet, which when he saw, he kissed his hand and cried, 'Praised be Allah!' Then said he to me, 'O my lord, wilt thou sell this?'; and I replied, 'Yes,' being still angry. Quoth he, 'What is its price?' And I asked, 'How much wilt thou give?' He answered 'Twenty dinars': so I thought he was making mock of me and exclaimed, 'Wend thy ways.' But he resumed, 'I will give thee fifty dinars for it.' I made him no answer, and he continued, 'A thousand dinars.' But I was silent, declining to reply, whilst he laughed at my silence and said, 'Why dost thou not return me an answer?' 'Hie thee home,' repeated I and was like to quarrel with him. But he bid thousand after thousand, and I still made him no reply, till he said, 'Wilt thou sell it for twenty thousand dinars?' I still thought he was mocking me; but the people gathered about me and all of them said, 'Sell to him, and if he buy not, we will all up and at him and drub him and thrust him forth the city.' So quoth I to him, 'Wilt thou buy or dost thou jest?'; and quoth he, 'Wilt thou sell or dost thou joke?' I said, 'I will sell if thou wilt buy;' then he said, 'I will buy it for thirty thousand dinars; take them and make the bargain;' so I cried to the bystanders, 'Bear witness against him,' adding to him, 'But on condition that thou acquaint me with the virtues and profit of this amulet for which thou payest all this money.' He answered, 'Close the bargain, and I will tell thee this;' I rejoined, 'I sell it to thee;' and he retorted, 'Allah be witness of that which thou sayst and testimony!' Then he brought out the gold and giving it to me took the amulet, and set it in his bosom; after which he turned to me and asked, 'Art thou content?' Answered I, 'Yes,' and he said to the people, 'Bear witness against him that he hath closed the bargain and touched the price, thirty thousand dinars.' Then he turned to me and said, 'Harkye, my poor fellow, hadst thou held back from selling, by Allah I would have bidden thee up to an hundred thousand dinars, nay, even to a thousand thousand!' When I heard these words, O Commander of the Faithful, the blood fled my face, and from that day there overcame it this pallor thou seest. Then said I to him, 'Tell me the reason of this and what is the use of this amulet.' And he answered, saying, 'Know that the King of Hind hath a daughter, never was seen a thing fairer than she, and she is possessed with a falling sickness. So the King summoned the Scribes and men of science and Divines, but none of them could relieve her of this. Now I was present in the assembly; so I said to him, 'O King, I know a man called Sa'adu'llah the Babylonian, than whom there is not on the face of the earth one more masterly in these matters, and if thou see fit to send me to him, do so.' Said he, 'Go to him;' and quoth I, 'Bring me a piece of carnelian.' Accordingly he gave me a great piece of carnelian and an hundred thousand dinars and a present, which I took, and with which I betook myself to the land of Babel. Then I sought out the Shaykh and when he was shown to me I delivered to him the money and the present, which he accepted and sending for a lapidary, bade him fashion the carnelian into this amulet. Then he abode seven months in observation of the stars, till he chose out an auspicious time for engraving it, when he graved upon it these talismanic characters which thou seest, and I took it and returned with it to the King.'"--And Shahrazad perceived the dawn of day and ceased to say her permitted say. 
 When it was the Nine Hundred and Fifty-second Night