,
She resumed, It hath reached me, O auspicious King, that when the Lady Jamilah returned to her women, she said to them, "Come, let us go back to our palace." They replied, "Why should we return now, seeing that we use to abide here three days?" Quoth she, "I feel an exceeding oppression in myself, as though I were sick, and I fear lest this increase upon me." So they answered, "We hear and obey," and donning their walking dresses went down to the river-bank and embarked in a boat; whereupon behold, the keeper of the garden came up to Ibrahim and said to him, knowing not what had happened, "O Ibrahim, thou hast not had the luck to enjoy the sight of her, and I fear lest she have seen thee, for 'tis her wont to tarry here three days." Replied Ibrahim, "She saw me not nor I her; for she came not forth of the pavilion." Rejoined the keeper, "True, O my son, for, had she seen thee, we were both dead men: but abide with me till she come again next week, and thou shalt see her and take thy fill of looking at her." Replied the Prince, "O my lord, I have with me money and fear for it: I also left men behind me and I dread lest they take advantage of my absence." He retorted, "O my son 'tis grievous to me to part with thee;" and he embraced and farewelled him. Then Ibrahim returned to the Khan where he lodged, and foregathering with the doorkeeper, took of him all his property and the porter said, "Good news, Inshallah!" But Ibrahim said, "I have found no way to my want, and now I am minded to return to my people." Whereupon the porter wept; then taking up his baggage, he carried them to the ship and abade him adieu. Ibrahim repaired to the place which Jamilah had appointed him and awaited her there till it grew dark, when, behold, she came up, disguised as a bully-boy with rounded beard and waist bound with a girdle. In one hand she held a bow and arrows and in the other a bared blade, and she asked him, "Art thou Ibrahim, son of al-Khasib, lord of Egypt?" "He I am," answered the Prince; and she said, "What ne'er-do-well art thou, who comes to debauch the daughters of Kings? Come: speak with the Sultan." "Therewith" (quoth Ibrahim) "I fell down in a swoon and the sailors died in their skins for fear; but, when she saw what had betided me, she pulled off her beard and throwing down her sword, ungirdled her waist whereupon I knew her for the Lady Jamilah and said to her, 'By Allah, thou hast rent my heart in sunder!' adding to the boatmen, 'Hasten the vessel's speed.' So they shook out the sail and putting off, fared on with all diligence; nor was it many days ere we made Baghdad, where suddenly we saw a ship lying by the river-bank. When her sailors saw us, they cried out to our crew, saying, 'Ho, such an one and such an one, we give you joy of your safety!' Then they drave their ship against our craft and I looked and in the other boat beheld Abu al-Kasim al-Sandalani who when he saw us exclaimed 'This is what I sought: go ye in God's keeping; as for me, I have a need to be satisfied!' Then he turned to me and said, 'Praised be Allah for safety! Hast thou accomplished shine errand? I replied, 'Yes!' Now Abu al-Kasim had a flambeau before him; so he brought it near our boat, and when Jamilah saw him, she was troubled and her colour changed: but, when he saw her, he said, 'Fare ye in Allah's safety. I am bound to Bassorah on business for the Sultan; but the gift is for him who is present.' Then he brought out a box of sweetmeats, wherein was Bhang and threw it into our boat: whereupon quoth I to Jamilah, 'O coolth of mine eyes, eat of this.' But she wept and said, 'O Ibrahim, wottest thou who that is?' and said I, 'Yes, 'tis such an one.' Replied she, 'He is my first cousin, son of my father's brother who sought me aforetime in marriage of my sire; but I would not accept of him. And now he is gone to Bassorah and most like he will tell my father of us.' I rejoined, 'O my lady he will not reach Bassorah, till we are at Mosul.' But we knew not what lurked for us in the Secret Purpose. "Then" (continued Ibrahim) "I ate of the sweetmeat, but hardly had it reached my stomach when I smote the ground with my head; and lay there till near dawn, when I sneezed and the Bhang issued from my nostrils. With this, I opened my eyes and found myself naked and cast out among ruins; so I buffeted my face and said in myself, 'Doubtless this is a trick al-Sandalani hath played me.' But I knew not whither I should wend, for I had upon me naught save my bag-trousers. However, I rose and walked on a little, till I suddenly espied the Chief of Police coming towards me, with a posse of men with swords and targes; whereat I took fright and seeing a ruined Hammam hid myself there. Presently, my foot stumbled upon something; so I put my hand to it, and it became befouled with blood. I wiped my hand upon my bag-trousers, unknowing what had befouled it, and put it out a second time, when it fell upon a corpse whose head came up in my hand. I threw it down, saying, 'There is no Majesty and there is no Might in Allah, the Glorious, the Great!'; and I took refuge in one of the corner-cabinets of the Hammam. Presently the Wali stopped at the bath-door and said, 'Enter this place and search.' So ten of them entered with cressets, and I of my fear retired behind a wall and looking upon the corpse, saw it to be that of a young lady with a face like the full moon; and her head lay on one side and her body clad in costly raiment on the other. When I saw this, my heart fluttered with affright. Then the Chief of Police entered and said, 'Search the corners of the bath.' So they entered the place wherein I was, and one of them seeing me came up hending in hand a knife half a cubit long. When he drew near me, he cried, 'Glory be to God, the Creator of this fair face! O youth, whence art thou?' Then he took me by the hand and said, 'O youth, why slewest thou this woman?' Said I, 'By Allah, I slew her not, nor wot I who slew her, and I entered not this place but in fear of you!' And I told him my case, adding, 'Allah upon thee, do me no wrong, for I am in concern for myself!' Then he took me and carried me to the Wali who, seeing the marks of blood on my hand said, 'This needeth no proof: strike off his head!'--And Shahrazad perceived the dawn of day and ceased saying her permitted say.
 When it was the Nine Hundred and Fifty-ninth Night